GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE, WELCOME
TO THE MAY 1ST MEETING OF THE
URBAN CITY COUNCIL IF YOU'RE
ABLE PLEASE RISE AND JOIN US
FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE OBEDIENCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR HEART.
PLEASE CALL THE WORLD COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH.
HERE COMES OUR HARRISON HERE
FOR OUR SONG HERE ROBERTSON
HERE WE'RE READY TO HEAR FOR
OUR ABSENT MAYOR TAYLOR HERE
COMES WHERE I'M HERE.
>> IT'S FOUR O'CLOCK HERE.
I'LL BRING YOU MORE HERE WE
HAVE A QUARREL WITH A MOTION
PLEASE TO PROVE THE AGENDA MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM FOREST CITY ADMINISTRATOR
MOMIR.
WE HAVE TODAY THE REPORT FROM
OUR INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION THE
MONTHLY UPDATE FROM CHAIR
CARTER JMI
IS CHAIR CARTER IN
THE HOUSE
IN OUR ABSENCE WE'LL
MOVE ON.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME, PUBLIC
COMMENT.
GENERAL TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK ACCOUNTS IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC AND
TO HAVE A GENERAL TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER IS KEN CABA
.
OH VERY WELL.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY
RIGHT NOW I UNDERSTAND THE
RATIONALE AROUND YOUR MEETING.
YOUR RESOLUTION IS VERY
EFFICIENT AND IS GREAT.
I AGREE WITH THAT RIGHT NOW
DEVELOPERS MUST PASS THROUGH A
REVIEW PROCESS THAT IS
UNCOORDINATED, INFLEXIBLE AND
TIME-CONSUMING IT NEEDS FIXING
BUT THE PROBLEM COMMITTEE IS
NOT PART OF THE PROBLEM.
I CHECKED AND OVER THE LAST TEN
YEARS THE COMMITTEE MET EXACTLY
TWELVE TIMES VERY ONCE A YEAR
ON AVERAGE THIS IS OUT OF YOUR
BROWNFIELD OVERSIGHT IS
CRITICAL NOT SO MUCH THE SAME
REMEDIATION ACTIVITY.
THESE ARE VETTED BY TECHNICAL
EXPERTS BUT A NON ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMITTEE MEET ME HERE.
THE CITY IS USING THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN ON THE SITE.
THE OTHER GOAL IS SOMETIMES
APPROPRIATE TO BRING MORE
DEVELOPERS WITH A BROWNFIELD
TAX CREDIT UNION SOMETHING NON
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS THE
PUBLIC.
MR. GARBER, WILL YOU TELL HIM
BECAUSE I THINK YOU CAN TURN
THE MICROPHONE ON DIRECTLY
AHEAD OF YOU THERE.
>> THERE'S PROBABLY A BUTTON TO
TURN TO TURN GREEN
.
RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU GOT THERE PERFECT.
MY APOLOGIES.
>> NO, I'M DOING SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
START OVER.
>> IT'S YOUR TIME.
WHATEVER YOU LIKE.
IF IT'S RUNNING.
SO I WAS SAYING I UNDERSTAND
WHY YOU MIGHT WANT TO DISSOLVE
THE BELFIORE INTERVIEW
COMMITTEE TONIGHT ON THE BASIS
OF EFFICIENCY IN A STREAMLINED
PROCESS AND I AGREE WITH THAT
TIMELINE.
I DEVELOPERS PASSED THROUGH A
CONVOLUTED REVIEW PROCESS.
IT'S INFLEXIBLE, IT NEEDS
FIXING BUT THE PLATFORM
COMMITTEE IS NOT PART OF THE
PROBLEM AND AS I WAS SAYING I
CHECKED AND OVER THE LAST TEN
YEARS THE COMMITTEE IS NOT
EXACTLY TWELVE TIMES BARELY
ONCE A YEAR ON AVERAGE
SOMETIMES SOME YEARS NOT AT
ALL.
THIS IS NOT APPROPRIATE.
OVERSIGHT IS CRITICAL NOT SO
MUCH THE SITE REMEDIATION
ACTIVITIES THESE ARE VETTED BY
TECHNICAL EXPERTS BUT THE NON
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES NEED
CLOSE SCRUTINY HERE THE CITY IS
USING THE BLOUNTVILLE PLAN NOT
TO CLEAN UP THE SITE BUT RATHER
TO ADVANCE OTHER GOALS.
IT'S SOMETIMES APPROPRIATE TO
REWARD DEVELOPERS WITH A
BROWNFIELD TAX CREDIT FOR DOING
SOMETHING NOT ENVIRONMENTAL
BENEFITS TO THE PUBLIC.
BUT THIS IS TRICKY.
THERE IS NO KARAMBIT USEFUL TAX
PAID OFF AND THE TAXPAYER
GIVEAWAY TO THE DEVELOPER.
WE NEED TO BE MINDFUL OF THAT
POLICY OVER AND FAVORITISM
STAFF NEGOTIATES THESE DEALS
OUT OF PUBLIC VIEW SO THEY
REQUIRE SUNLIGHT AND THAT'S
ADAPTIVE TAX CREDITS ARE
VISIBLE.
THEY DON'T SHOW UP IN PROPERTY
TAX BILLS AND MORTGAGES WHEN
THE CITY BUDGET THE EFFECTIVE
GOVERNMENT ENTITIES CITY COUNTY
SCHOOL BOARD, DISTRICT, LIBRARY
AND MENTAL HEALTH OFTEN DON'T
EVEN GET THEY'RE MISSING THE
MORTGAGE REVENUE WHICH CAN RUN
INTO THE MILLIONS JUST FOR NOT
ENVIRONMENTAL.
THE CITY IS EFFECTIVELY
DECIDING FOR ALL THESE ENTITIES
THAT'S ANOTHER REASON FOR
STRICT OVERSIGHT.
SO THESE PLANS ESPECIALLY THE
NON ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENTS NEED
CAREFUL SCRUTINY ON THE FRONT
END.
THAT'S WHY THE COUNCIL VOTED
UNANIMOUSLY IN APRIL 2003 TO
ESTABLISH THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
PLEASE KEEP IT INTACT.
THIS IS A VERY CAPABLE CITY
COUNCIL BUT YOU SIMPLY DO NOT
HAVE THE TIME OR THE BANDWIDTH
AT YOUR MEETINGS TO FULLY GET
THESE COMPLEX AND OPAQUE PLANS.
YOU MAY ARGUE THAT THE CITY'S
BROWNFIELD POLICY ADOPTED
TWENTY NINETEEN REDUCES THE
NEED FOR REVIEW.
IN FACT IT HAS A LAYER
OF COMPLEXITY THAT MAKES
SEPARATE REVIEW EVEN MORE
IMPORTANT BY DISSOLVING THE
COMMITTEE YOU ARE ALSO
ELIMINATING ONE OF TWO CHANCES
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
IN CONCLUSION, THIS COMMITTEE
POSES NO BURDEN AND PROVIDES
NEEDED OVERSIGHT FOR THE
DISCRETIONARY REMOVAL
OF NATTERED IN TAXPAYER DOLLARS
FROM THE TAX ROLLS FOR NON
ENVIRONMENTAL PURPOSES.
PLEASE DO NOT DEVELOP TONIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING MY
COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ED
FORMATING
.
HI MY NAME IS ED.
I LIVE AT TWELVE TEN BROOKLYN
AVENUE.
I WAS IN WRITTEN BY KEN
GERBER'S DESCRIPTION THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN THE BERNFIELD
PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE IS IN
FREQUENT MEETINGS.
I THINK I'VE BEEN TO TWO
OF THOSE TWELVE MEETINGS OVER
THE SPAN OF THE LAST TEN YEARS.
>> I REMEMBER WAITING A LONG
TIME FOUR PERMITS FOR SOME
OF THEM AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I BROUGHT UP AND I'LL
REPEAT IS JUST THE THE
RELATIVELY LIGHT ADMINISTRATIVE
BURDEN FOR THIS COMMITTEE
RELATIVE TO THEIR RELATIVELY
LARGE SUMS BEING EXPENDED ON
BROWNFIELD OVERSIGHT
OF BROWNFIELD REMEDIATION AND
THE TAX DOLLARS TO GO WITH THAT
A COUPLE HOURS A YEAR
OF OVERSIGHT AND A COUPLE HOURS
A YEAR OF LISTENING TO PUBLIC
COMMENTARY ON THESE SORTS
OF EFFORTS SEEMS LIKE A GOOD
LIKE A GOOD INVESTMENT.
>> THE THE CHALLENGE
OF BROWNFIELDS IS THAT AS A
CITY WE TEND TO FORGET WHAT
CAME BEFORE US.
>> WE FORGET THAT THERE WAS A
CHEMIST LIVING AT AND DOING HIS
CHEMICAL EXPERIMENTS AT WHAT IS
NOW THE SCIENCE CENTER.
WE FORGET WHERE ALL THE
LANDFILLS AND DUMPS WERE.
WE JUST FORGOT, YOU KNOW, LIKE
PEOPLE FROM A HUNDRED YEARS AGO
ARE NOT AROUND NOW TO TELL US
WHERE NOT TO GO.
AND SO WE'RE REDISCOVERING
WE'RE DISCOVERING OR LIKE SOME
PEOPLE KNOW OF COURSE BUT MOST
PEOPLE DON'T JUST HOW EXPENSIVE
IT IS TO TAKE LAND THAT WE'VE
DESTROYED AND BRING IT BACK UP
TO A SPACE WHERE IT CAN BE
REUSED.
AND I THINK JUST FOR THE PUBLIC
STEWARDSHIP OF THE LAND THAT'S
THE CITY'S YOU KNOW BUT I THINK
IT'S A GOOD IDEA TO KEEP THIS
KEEP THIS FUNCTION VISIBLE.
I DID LOOK FOR OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ALSO HAVE
BROWNFIELD OVERSIGHT AND I DID
FIND THAT COUNTY WHICH DOES A
PRETTY CREDIBLE JOB OF MEETING
ON A REGULAR BASIS AND
REPORTING ON ON A REGULAR BASIS
THEIR EFFORTS AN EQUIVALENT WEB
SEARCH OF THE CITY WEBSITE WAS
NOT AS ANYWHERE NEAR AS USEFUL
.
SO I GUESS THE REQUEST IS IF
YOU'RE IF YOU'RE GOING TO
DECIDE TO REMOVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE, I ASK WOULD BE
PLEASE PUT A MANDATE TO REPORT
OUT ON BROWNFIELD ACTIVITIES ON
PERHAPS AN ANNUAL BASIS TO
DESCRIBE THE LOCATIONS,
UNDERUSE THE FUNDS EXPENDED OR
NOT COLLECTED AND MAKE SURE
THAT PEOPLE CAN KEEP TABS ON
BAD DECISIONS OF THE PAST
HOPEFULLY REMEDIATED IN THE
FUTURE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RALPH MEKHI
.
RALPH MCKEE PHONE NUMBER FIVE
FIVE SIX.
>> GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
WROTE THE KEY WORD FOR YOUR I
WOULD ECHO THE COMMENTS BY THE
TWO PRECEDING SPEAKERS THOUGHT
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THE
COMMITTEE CURRENTLY THE TASK
OF REVIEWING MULTI-MILLION
DOLLAR RENFIELD'S PLANS ONE TO
A YEAR ONE OF THE POLICY
STANDARDS PREVIOUSLY SAID THAT
A DEVELOPER ASKING FOR TWO
DOLLARS FOR NON ENVIRONMENTAL
ITEMS HAS TO GIVE A PERCENTAGE
TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THE COMMITTEE RECENTLY
INCLUDING SOME NEW MEMBERS MET
OVERRODE A STAFF RECOMMENDATION
OF THE ENTIRE VILLAGE PROJECT.
THE DEVELOPER DIDN'T PROPOSE
ANY HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE
VERY MINIMAL ITEMS AND THEN
RECOMMENDED DISSOLVING ITSELF.
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT COUNCIL
MEMBERS CONSIDER ESSENTIALLY
DON'T WORRY ABOUT THE COUNTY
ALSO HAS TO APPROVE AND DOES
ITS OWN DUE DILIGENCE SO THAT
REGULATORY GUIDANCE HERE THE
CURRENT JUST RECENTLY MET ON
THE SAME GILLETT'S PROJECT AND
SEVERAL COMMISSIONERS SAID
ESSENTIALLY WE SHOULD DEFER IT.
SO IT APPEARS THAT'S REALLY NOT
A VIABLE SOLUTION.
IT'S OUR POLICY THAT THE CITY'S
OVERSIGHT BOARD IS GOING TO
ESSENTIALLY BE POTENTIALLY
RUBBER STAMPED BY THE COUNTY
AND THE COMMISSIONERS
ESSENTIALLY SAID THAT DID THE
PERSON IN CHARGE OF THAT FOR
THE COUNTY USING THE PROJECT
THIS IS BIG AFFORDABLE HOUSING
I THINK SHIRKING RESPONSIBILITY
TO CAREFULLY REVIEW THESE PLANS
IS A MISTAKE.
NEXT, BROOK STREET CONSTRUCTION
THE FIRST APPROVED PROCESS
THERE IS SOME DISCUSSION, SOME
HEATED.
THERE ARE MEMOS DESCRIBING A
BIT ABOUT THE DIFFERENCES IN
CONTRACTOR PREMISES.
>> TO BE TRANSPARENT WE SHOULD
BE ABLE TO SEE THE ADDITIONAL
MAPS WITH PAINT AND WHAT WE'RE
WHAT WE'RE PRESUMABLY GETTING
FOR THOSE EXTRA DOLLARS.
BUT OUR CONTRACTOR TODAY IS AS
FAR AS I COULD TELL, DON'T MAKE
THAT INFORMATION TO HAVE A REAL
SCORE.
THAT'S A PRETTY GOOD WAY TO
PREVENT THE CRITICS OF THE BID
PROCESS.
YOU CAN'T SEE THE ADDITIONS
OF OURS AND YOU HAVE TO GUESS
WHAT THE PERCEIVED WAS ON
SEVERAL RECENT CONTRACTORS
DECIDING FACTOR WORKER
DEVELOPMENT.
WHAT AN APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
MAY BE BETTER TRAINING?
ISN'T THE PUBLIC ENTITLED TO
HAVE THE SAME SOME IDEA WE GET
IN THE EXTRA HOURS AFTER THE
PROJECT SO I WILL WALK AWAY.
I JUST HOPE THAT THE PROMISE
WILL BE KEPT THAT THERE WILL BE
SOME KERPLUNK SAVE SOME OF THE
DOZENS OF THE RESULTS MR.
PROPOSED SAKWA I WORK IN THE
STREET REGULARLY AND WITH NO
SAFETY CONCERN AND I'LL BE
TREES ARE CUT DOWN TO SAY
NOTHING OF THE DEPARTMENT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITZ
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'D LIKE TO RESPOND TO THE
RATHER PERSONAL COMMENTS I
RECEIVED FROM COUNCIL MEMBERS
WHEN I SPOKE HERE ON APRIL
17TH.
I DO NOT WISH TO RESPOND IN
KIND RATHER I COME BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT WITH UNDERSTANDING I
HAVE SPOKEN ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST
AT LEAST A DOZEN TIMES PRIOR TO
THIS EVENING.
NO COUNCIL MEMBER PAST OR
PRESENT HAS CORRECTED ANY
OF THE CLAIMS MADE DURING THOSE
TWELVE APPEARANCES.
>> HOW DO MOST PEOPLE MYSELF
INCLUDED COME TO UNDERSTAND
THIS HISTORICAL EVENT I OFFER
CASABLANCA, SOPHIE'S CHOICE AND
SCHINDLER'S LIST.
I ALSO OFFER THE HOLOCAUST
MUSEUMS WE HAVE LOCALLY AND
NATIONALLY AND THE CONSTANT
REMINDERS THE PRESS REITERATES
AGAIN AND AGAIN MY FRIEND
REFERS TO THIS AS THE MIGHTY
WURLITZER SPINNING THE SAME
SONGS OVER AND OVER.
IN OTHER WORDS, WE HAVE BEEN
COAXED NOT LOGICALLY CONVINCED
INTO OUR KNOWLEDGE IN QUOTES
AND AS I SAY YOU CANNOT ARGUE A
PERSON OUT OF A POSITION THEY
DIDN'T ARGUE THEMSELVES INTO
WHEN PEOPLE ARE PRESENTED WITH
FACTS THAT RUN COUNTER TO WHAT
THEY ASSUME THEY KNOW A GREAT
COGNITIVE DISSONANCE SETS IN.
THEY THEN HAVE TWO CHOICES
EITHER CONSIDER WHAT IS BEING
SAID TO HAVE POSSIBILITIES
OF BEING TRUE OR ASSAULT THE
CHARACTER OF THE PERSON SAYING
THEM.
IT'S HUMAN NATURE NOT
NECESSARILY MEAN SPIRITEDNESS.
CONSIDER
A FIRST CHOICE.
I'M SURE YOU ALL HAVE WHAT
HAPPENS IF ONE OF YOU SAYS
PUBLICLY THAT THERE MIGHT BE
SOME MERIT IN HENRY'S WORDS
WORDS TO DATE THAT HAVE NOT
BEEN CHALLENGED?
DO YOU REALLY THINK YOU'LL WIN
REELECTION?
LOOK WHAT HAPPENED TO ALI AND
LOUHI AFTER HE ACCEPTED A SMALL
DONATION FROM ME.
HE'S NO LONGER HERE.
BUT IF ONE OF YOU VOTES TO
SUSPEND MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL,
I THINK WE ALL KNOW THE ANSWER
.
REASONABLE PEOPLE CAN DISAGREE
USING REASON AND NOT EMOTIONS.
>> AND I HOPE THAT AS I
CONTINUE TO ADDRESS THIS VITAL
TOPIC REASON AND LOGIC ALONG
WITH RESPECT WILL PREVAIL.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEAN
HENRY.
>> HELLO.
I'M GOING TO TIE MY TONGUE AND
NOT RESPOND TO THAT LAST
SPEAKER I CANCEL I AM ONE
OF THE MANY IN OUR COMMUNITY
WHO KNEW JUDE WALTON AND
COUNTED ON HER TO BE COMMUNITY
ENGAGED, HONEST, FORTHRIGHT,
GENEROUS AND SOLUTIONS ORIENTED
AND COMPASSIONATE IN THAT
SPIRIT I'M HERE TO ASK YOU TO
CREATE A CITY TASK FORCE ON
GENDER BASED VIOLENCE.
THERE IS NO DENYING THAT JUD'S
MURDER WAS THE RESULT OF GENDER
BASED VIOLENCE.
THERE IS NO DENYING THAT OUR
CITY HAS FAILED TO SERIOUSLY
ADDRESS THIS PERVASIVE PROBLEM.
IT IS LONG PAST TIME TO TAKE
ACTION.
SEXUAL ASSAULT IS THE ONLY
CRIME VIOLENT PROPERTY IN WHICH
OUR CITY HAS A HIGHER INCIDENCE
RATE PER CAPITA THAN THE REST
OF MICHIGAN AND THE COUNTRY AT
LARGE THAT RATE HAS INCREASED
OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS.
FORTY THREE PERCENT OF US WOMEN
EXPERIENCED SOME FORM OF SEXUAL
VIOLENCE ONE IN THREE US WOMEN
EXPERIENCED SOME FORM
OF PHYSICAL VIOLENCE THAT'S
OVER TWENTY THOUSAND WOMEN EACH
IMPACTED IN THIS CITY
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE OF COLOR
TRANSGENDER NON BINARY AND
LOWER INCOME CITIZENS
EXPERIENCE HIGHER RATES
OF GENDER BASED VIOLENCE ALONG
WITH INCREASED SEVERITY
DURATION AND FATALITY PRIOR
INCIDENTS OF GENDER BASED
VIOLENCE IS THE SINGLE GREATEST
PREDICTOR OF MASS SHOOTINGS.
SIXTY THREE PERCENT OF ALL MASS
SHOOTERS HAVE HISTORIES
OF GENDER BASED VIOLENCE,
AGGRESSION TOWARDS WOMEN
INCLUDING STALKING, HARASSMENT
AS WELL AS PHYSICAL VIOLENCE IS
PREDICTIVE OF OTHER VIOLENT
CRIME.
I UNDERSTAND DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
VICTIM SERVICES ARE PROVIDED
OUTSIDE BY OUTSIDE AGENCIES
USUALLY AT THE COUNTY LEVEL.
I'M NOT CALLING FOR DUPLICATING
THOSE SERVICES.
I AM ASKING FOR PREVENTION.
A CITY RESIDENT WHO FEELS
UNSAFE CALL CITY EMERGENCY
RESPONDERS.
JUDE ONCE CALLED THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT FOR AID WHEN AN EX
WAS REFUSING TO LEAVE HER HOME.
THEY WOULDN'T INTERVENE UNTIL A
MAN WITH INFLUENCE IN THE CITY
CALLED AND DEMANDED ACTION ON
HER BEHALF OVER TEN YEARS AGO I
REMEMBER JUDE COMPLAINED ABOUT
PEOPLE USING HER BACKYARD AS A
SHORTCUT TO WEST PARK FROM
DEBONIS TO DOWNTOWN WHEN SHE
AND NEIGHBORS APPLIED FOR A
FENCE PERMIT.
>> THEY WERE DENIED BECAUSE
THEIR HOMES WERE IN A FLOOD
PLAIN.
HER MURDER ACCESSED HER HOME
FROM THE REAR AND WAS STAYING
AT DONNA'S.
PLEASE TAKE A MOMENT TO LET
THAT SINK IN.
THOSE ARE JUST TWO STORIES FROM
JUD'S EXPERIENCE THEY ARE MORE
WHICH SIGNAL OPPORTUNITIES LOS
TO INCREASE HER SAFETY AS A
SINGLE WOMAN LIVING ALONE AND
THERE ARE SO MANY MORE CITIZENS
WITH STORY OF GENDER BASED
VIOLENCE AND HARASSMENT TELL
EACH OF THOSE STORIES COULD
LEAD TO AN ACTION AT THE CITY
GOVERNANCE LEVEL THAT WOULD
SHOW WE AS A CITY ARE WILLING
TO STEP UP TO THE CHALLENGE
OF RESPONDING ADEQUATELY TO THE
RISK POSED TO VULNERABLE
CITIZENS.
THE RESEARCH IS ABUNDANT.
THE FUNDING FOR THIS WORK THE
STATE AND FEDERAL LEVEL IS
ABUNDANT.
WE HAVE A COMMUNITY CAPACITY
AND EXPERTIZE WE HAVE GENDER
BASED VIOLENCE PROGRAMS AT
EVERY LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT
EXCEPT IN THIS CITY.
THANK YOU.
DO YOU HAVE THE WILL WHAT WOULD
YOU DO IN YOUR PLACE?
PLEASE HONOR HER LEGACY BY
SERIOUSLY CONSIDERING THIS
REQUEST.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER LAUREN SARGENT
EVENING.
MY NAME IS DR. LAWRENCE
INVERWAY IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M A RESIDENT FOR ALMOST FORTY
YEARS A FOURTH GENERATION
MICHIGANDER AND TONIGHT URGING
ALL OF YOU HERE TO EXERCISE
COURAGE PLEASE BE UNANIMOUS
WITH ONE CLEAR VOICE AND I WILL
STOP PERMITTING INVESTMENTS IN
TOXIC AND CLIMATE DISRUPTING
GAS INFRASTRUCTURE NO VOTE ARE
NOT EVEN BRINGING A VOTE BEFORE
US IS A NO.
THAT'S A NO VOTE ON CLIMATE
ACTION THAT WE ABSOLUTELY
URGENTLY REQUIRE.
WE ARE IN A DECLARED CLIMATE
EMERGENCY.
WE HAVE AN EIGHT TO ZERO GOAL
OF POWERING OUR GRID WITH ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT RENEWABLES BY
2030 THERE IS NO POSSIBLE WAY
THAT WE CAN EVEN APPROXIMATE
THIS GOAL UNLESS WE STOP
PERMITTING INVESTMENT IN FOSSIL
FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE RIGHT HERE
IN ANN ARBOR.
WE NEED TO ELECTRIFY EVERYTHING
AND POWER IT WITH RENEWABLES
AND EFFICIENCY.
WATCHED THE LAST 40 50 HAVE A
MOTTO WHEN YOU'RE IN A HOLE
FIRST STOP DIGGING GAS
INFRASTRUCTURE IS A HUGE GAPING
HOLE, PERHAPS THE LARGEST THAT
WE HERE CAN CONTROL.
WE NEED TO CUT THAT OFF
IMMEDIATELY TODAY I JUST READ
THAT PART OF SOUTHERN FRANCE
THERE ARE THREE COMMON THAT
HAVE NO WATER.
THAT'S THREE THOUSAND PEOPLE
WHO HAVE NO WATER.
THERE ARE FOREST FIRES RAGING
IN THOSE AREAS THAT DON'T
NORMALLY EVEN START UNTIL MAYBE
JULY OR AUGUST AND THEY'VE CUT
OFF WATER FOR EVERYTHING EXCEPT
FOR HYGIENE AND EMERGENCY
MEDICAL USE.
NO AGRICULTURE THAT'S TODAY THE
ENERGY, ENVIRONMENTAL AND
WRITERS COMMISSIONS HAVE ALL
PASSED RESOLUTIONS CALLING FOR
NO NEW GAS INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
NEW AND SUBSTANTIALLY REMODELED
BUILDINGS.
PLEASE SCHEDULE AND VOTE YES ON
A GAS BAN.
YOU AS COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE THE
ONLY ONES WHO HAVE THE ABILITY
TO MAKE THIS POLICY A REALITY.
PLEASE WE NEED TO PUT THIS
COMMUNITY'S MONEY WHERE OUR
MOUTH IS.
WE NEED TO ACT AS IF OUR HAIR
IS ON FIRE.
THE FORESTS ALREADY ARE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETALS SAND
CASTLE
.
I THAT ALL SAND CASTLE.
IF YOU'RE ON THE PHONE CAN YOU
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND
?
MAYOR?
I DON'T SEE THE CALLER ON ZOON
IN THE CALLER'S ABSENCE.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS BLAINE COLEMAN
FOR
20 YEARS TO PODIUM RUN THIS
SONG.
IT'S WE MY TIME WHICH EVERYONE
IS OBJECTING TO SAYS WE ARE
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THIS IS THE LANGUAGE OF OUR
RESOLUTION.
FOR TWENTY YEARS WE HAVE BEEN
DEMANDING THAT THIS CITY
COUNCIL APPROVED A RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
AND OTHER WORDS WE DEMANDING
THAT YOU STOP FUNDING THE
HOLOCAUST AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
WE HAVE DEMANDED THAT YOU AT
LEAST AT LEAST ALLOW A
RESOLUTION OBJECTING TO THE
FUNDING OF THIS HOLOCAUST
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
AND YOU ARE YOUR WAY INTO
SILENCING ANY RESOLUTION YOU'RE
THROWING ALL YOUR WEIGHT INTO
MAKING SURE THAT THE
PALESTINIANS KEEP GETTING
KILLED WITH YOUR MONEY AND WITH
YOUR PARTY'S POLITICAL SUPPORT
AFTER THIS PUBLIC SPEAKER PRIOR
TO THE MEETING IS OVER.
YOU'RE GOING TO BE TALKING A
LOT ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST, ABOUT
HOW YOU HATE THE HOLOCAUST.
IT DID HAPPEN.
YEAH, SIX MILLION WERE KILLED
BY HITLER.
YEAH, ACTUALLY TWENTY SEVEN
MILLION RUSSIANS WERE ALSO
KILLED BY HITLER SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN FIVE AND FIFTEEN
THOUSAND GAY PEOPLE WERE KILLED
BY HITLER, SOMETHING
APPROXIMATING MAYBE FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND GYPSIES WERE
KILLED BY WHERE THAT ALL
HAPPENED.
>> BUT NOW YOU DON'T GIVE A
ABOUT COST BECAUSE WHATEVER YOU
SAY BECAUSE YOU'VE MADE SURE
THAT THE HOLOCAUST AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE CONTINUES
YOU HAVE MAKE SURE THAT
RESOLUTION HAS BEEN EVEN
ALLOWED TO REACH THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR A VOTE IN OVER
TWENTY YEARS.
YOUR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION IN
DECEMBER 2003 URGED YOU
TO
APPROVE A RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL BY
STRIPPING THE COMMISSION
OF THEIR STAFF.
THE CHAIRPERSON OF THAT
COMMISSION AND REPLACING ITS
MEMBERS AND GENERAL HARIRI TOOK
MONEY FOR CAMPAIGN FROM OLD
FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES AS A KIND OF CITY
COUNCIL.
WE HAVE NOW THAT CITY COUNCIL
CONTINUES TO PUSH AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOHN SUFFER
BSF HANI HAPPY DAY TODAY IS THE
INTERNATIONAL WORKERS DAY
ACROSS THE GLOBE AND THE
WORKERS SHOW SOLIDARITY WITH
EACH OTHER AND I AM SHOWING MY
SOLIDARITY WITH WORKING PEOPLE
.
I AM HERE TO SAY THAT OVER 80
YEARS AGO THE HOLOCAUST DID
HAPPEN.
SIX MILLION JEWS AND TWENTY
SEVEN MILLION RUSSIANS WERE
MURDERED BY NAZI GERMANY AND IT
HAPPENED EIGHTY YEARS AGO WHERE
20 SEVEN MILLION RUSSIANS AND
SIX MILLION JEWISH PEOPLE WERE
KILLED BY NAZI GERMANY.
MANY GERMANS STOOD BY AND
WATCHED AS JEWISH PEOPLE WERE
PUSHED INTO GAS CHAMBERS AND
MURDERED MANY KAMINS STOOD BY
AND WATCHED THAT HAPPEN.
CITY COUNCIL IS DOING THE SAME
THING WHILE A GENOCIDE THE COST
OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE IS
HAPPENING RIGHT UNDER THEIR
NOSES.
I AM PUSHING PALESTINIANS INTO
THEIR EXTINCTION AND THEY WANT
US TO BELIEVE THEY ARE NOT
RACIST RACIST ALL WHAT HAPPENED
30 YEARS AGO AND PEOPLE LIKE
CITY COUNCIL ALLOWED IT TO GO
ON AT THE SAME TIME WHEN PEOPLE
ARE BEING KILLED BY NAZIS, THE
GERMANS STOOD UP AND SAID NO,
THOSE PEOPLE ARE BARELY
REMEMBERED.
I THOSE WHO STOOD UP AGAINST
THE GENOCIDE AND WHO STANDS
AGAINST THE PALESTINIANS AND
WHO DOING EXACTLY WHAT CAME IN
PUBLIC DID BOTH WERE MURDERING
JEWISH POPULATION.
YOU THE RACIST MAYOR TAYLOR,
YOU HAVE A RACIST CITY AND I
THE CITY COUNCIL PEOPLE ARE
RACISTS AND ANTI-SEMITE AGAINST
RACISM AND I'M AGAINST AGAINST
ALL KINDS OF RACISM.
I CHOSE IT.
IT IS SHAMEFUL THAT YOU HIDE
BEHIND HOLOCAUST AND MAKE NOW
YOU'VE LOST YOUR MIND.
IT IS A RACIST BECAUSE IT IS AN
EXCUSE TO STEP OF THE LAND
WHICH IS THE DEMAND IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
BUT WHAT MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
THAT NONE OF US MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
THANK YOU AND JUST TO THANK ME
,OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF
HAYNER
HERE.
THANK YOU.
AS I WAS SITTING THERE AND
THESE FOLKS HAVE BEEN COMING
DOWN HERE WHAT EIGHTEEN,
NINETEEN YEARS NOW AND NOBODY
EVEN SEEMS TO SAY YES SHE'S
RIGHT.
SHE SAID SHE LIKES EXCEPT HER
SHAME SHE'S MADE.
I DON'T MIND THAT SHE'S
INTERRUPTING ME EVERY CHANCE
THAT I FAILED TO ACT AND IT'S
MUCH MY GREAT SHAME THAT I DID.
I APOLOGIZE TO THE PALESTINIAN
COMMUNITY HERE IN HANOVER THAT
IF YOU ATTACK WELL NOT HERE SO
HOPEFULLY WE CAN PROVIDE A
WORLD FORUM HERE.
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
DISSOLUTION OF THE BROWNFIELD
COMMITTEE THE BLOMFIELD REVIEW
COMMITTEE WHICH I SAT ON WHEN I
WAS ON CITY COUNCIL AND
ACTUALLY OCCURRED TO ME THAT IT
OCCURRED TO ME THAT I THINK
MOTHER AND I ARE THE ONLY TWO
PEOPLE IN THIS.
WE MET A FULL TIME HERE IN THIS
CHAMBERS AND FOR CERTAIN I'M
SEVEN MORE OF THOSE BLOMFIELD
MEETINGS THAN ANYBODY ELSE HERE
IN THIS ROOM.
THERE'S NO DOUBT ABOUT IT AND I
THINK IT'S SHAMEFUL TO USE THE
TERMS OF OUR PREVIOUS SPEAKERS
THAT YOU COULD GET OUT OF THIS
COMMITTEE THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
TAKE THE TRUST THAT THE
ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF HUNDRED
TWENTY ONE THOUSAND SOME OF US
GAVE TO THIS BODY TO OVERSEE
THESE IMPORTANT PROGRAMS THAT
HAVE LONG TERM IMPLICATIONS FOR
THE HEALTH OF OUR ECONOMY, THAT
OUR ECONOMIC TOOLS THAT CAN BE
USED FOR GOOD THAT ARE
ENVIRONMENTAL TOOLS THAT WHEN
USED PROPERLY CAN BE USED FOR
GOOD AND YOU'RE GOING AND SHIRK
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY.
>> YOU'RE GOING TO REALLY SET
ASIDE THE PUBLIC'S TRUST IN
WHAT YOU CAN DO HERE AT THIS
TABLE AND I THINK WE'VE HAD
PUSHING 90 MILLION DOLLARS IN
TAX YOU KNOW, FOREGONE TAXES IN
THE LAST SIX YEARS.
THAT'S OUR MONEY WE'VE GIVEN
AWAY AND I DO IT I DO A COUPLE
OF LOOPS EVERY DAY AROUND
WHETHER DENHA CON JOB WHICH IS
USE SOME TAX CREDITS DOWN THERE
IN THE DISCOUNT AND YOU KNOW,
IN WISCONSIN SOME OTHER SITES
WE HAVE RESPONSIBLE PARTIES.
THERE IS NO WAY THAT WE SHOULD
BE GIVING AWAY TAX DOLLARS WHEN
THERE'S A RESPONSIBLE PARTY AND
SOME OF THE MAYOR'S TOADIES
I'VE RUN INTO ON MY WALKS
AROUND THERE AND THEY DON'T
HAVE A CLUE WHAT THIS IS ABOUT
AND THEY SAY ISN'T IT GREAT
THAT THEY'RE CLEANING THIS UP?
NOBODY IS US TO PAY OUR TAX
DOLLARS ARE CLEANING THIS UP
AND YOU WANT TO SHIP THAT TO
THE COUNTY.
YOU WANT THE COUNTY TO BE THE
ONES TO DECIDE THAT SO THAT
NINE PEOPLE ONLY THREE OF ANY
KIND OF GEOGRAPHIC RELATIONSHIP
TO THE CITY LIMITS ARE GOING TO
MAKE THOSE DECISIONS FOR YOU.
IT'S SHAMEFUL AND I WOULD LIKE
EVERYONE TO HEAR I WOULD
DEFINITELY SAY YES OR NO TO
THIS TO TELL US WHY IT IS YOU
DON'T THINK THAT THE BODY THAT
IS CHARGED IN THE LAW, THE
LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT
DOESN'T GET TO HAVE A SAY IN
THIS AND THE HUNDRED TWENTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE THAT YOU
REPRESENT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SCOTT
FITZPATRICK
.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF THE UNARMED CRISIS RESPONSE
AND WELLNESS CHECK PROPOSAL
WITH THE PERSONAL STORY A STORY
OF MENTAL HEALTH.
MY WIFE AND I MARRIED IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AND ENJOYED TWO YEARS
AS NEWLYWEDS THEN COVID IN
QUARANTINE AND ALSO WORKING
FROM HOME.
WE SPENT TWENTY FOUR HOURS A
DAY AND SEVEN DAYS A WEEK
TOGETHER FOUR YEARS THROUGH
COUNSELING.
>> WE ALSO LEARNED THAT BOTH MY
WIFE AND I SUFFER FROM SEVERE
CHILDHOOD TRAUMA FOR EVERYONE
IN THIS ROOM WHO HAS HAD A
RELATIONSHIP OR IS IN A
RELATIONSHIP I THINK CAN
RESPECT THE FIREWORKS THAT THAT
RECIPE JUST COOKED UP IN THE
FALL OF LAST YEAR AN ARGUMENT
ROSE TO CRISIS LEVEL FOR THE
FIRST TIME I WAS SCARED IT WAS
LATE ON A SUNDAY EVENING WHEN
NEITHER ONE OF US COULD REACH
OUR COUNSELOR.
I FELT SO OVER MY HEAD I CALLED
911 ONE A FRIEND HAD RECENTLY
TOLD ME ABOUT AN ARMED CRISIS
WELLNESS CHECK.
>> I ASKED THE DISPATCHER
PLEASE SEND AN UNAMBIGUOUS TEAM
FOR A WELLNESS CHECK.
THIRTY MINUTES LATER THREE
POLICE ARRIVED.
WE BOTH COOPERATED BUT I
BELIEVED I WAS ASKED LEADING
QUESTIONS WHILE IN A VULNERABLE
STATE FOR THE PURPOSE OF MAKING
AN ARREST.
I DON'T FAULT THE POLICE.
THEY WERE EXTREMELY
COMPASSIONATE AND HELPFUL BUT
BECAUSE MY WIFE HAD SELF HARMED
AND BECAUSE I HAD A SMALL CUT
AND BRUISE MY WIFE WAS ARRESTED
.
BUT THIS IS NOT A STORY WITH A
SAD ENDING.
MY WIFE AND I GOT THE
COUNSELING.
WE'RE IN A GREAT PLACE TOGETHER
AND WE'RE OVERCOMING A LIFETIME
OF CHILDHOOD TRAUMA TOGETHER
WE'VE LEARNED TO SUPPORT EACH
OTHER IN A FUNCTIONING AND
HEALTHY MARRIAGE SPENDING A
NIGHT IN JAIL WAS EXTREMELY
TRAUMATIC FOR MY WIFE.
IT WAS ALSO COSTLY LEGAL FEES,
LOGISTICS, HOTEL ROOMS, COURT
COSTS PUT EXPENSES OVER TEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS BUT I CAN
NEVER ERASE THE VISION OF MY
WIFE BEING WALKED UP PATROL CAR
IN HANDCUFFS ESPECIALLY WHEN I
FEEL HER SUPPORT WAS FOR
ALTHOUGH THE CASE WAS DISMISSED
.
MY WIFE STILL HAS AN ARREST
RECORD AND I NOW FEAR FOR HER
CITIZENSHIP.
I LOVED READING THE REPORT AND
THE ARMED CRISIS SUPPORT TEAM
STATUS.
LAST YEAR IT LOOKED LIKE MONEY
FROM THE FEDERAL AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN ACT WAS DIRECTED TO
THE PROGRAM AND ACCORDING TO A
GROUP CALLED THE COALITION FOR
REVISIONING OUR SAFETY IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY, THAT FUNDING
WOULD ALLOW THE PROGRAM TO
OPERATE FOR THE FIRST YEAR.
COULD THAT BE THE BEGINNING
WHILE THEIR SOURCES OF FUNDING
ARE SECURED?
I SINCERELY HOPE SO.
I CAN START TREATING IF WE CAN
START.
>> THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STUHLBARG.
TOM STOLLBERG PHONON RUNNING IN
FIVE THREE FOUR.
GO AHEAD GOVERNOR AND CALL TO
SPEAK ABOUT WHAT WE THE PLAN
REVIEW COMMITTEE AND WOULD
ADVISE AGAINST IT.
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER WAS
COVERING MANY ASPECTS OF IT ALL
OVER THE BOARD.
WHAT I'M GOING TO SAY ABOUT IT
INTO THE PART OF A PROBLEM
REGULATION WOULD BE OVERSIGHT.
>> NOW I'M I BELIEVE WHAT I
BELIEVE WE'RE DEALING WITH AN
AWFUL ONCE IN A WHILE IN
GOVERNMENT THE GOVERNMENT HAS A
ROLE TO PLAY.
THAT'S NOT TO SAY THAT YOU ARE
REPRESENTING WHENEVER YOU
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF OVERSIGHT
PUBLIC SCRUTINY PROBABLY PUBLIC
INFORMATION PROVIDED IT WOULD
BE THAT WE OF THE PUBLIC OF THE
PEOPLE YOU REPRESENT ARE GOING
INTO GOVERNMENT PUT THIS
PARTICULAR OUR HAS TO DO IT IN
A RELATIVELY SHORT AMOUNT TIME
BUT IS MORE OF A FUNCTION
OF YOUR ASPECT OF CLEANING UP
YOUR SITE OTHERWISE YOU ALLOW
TAX DOLLARS ON NO PUBLIC
SCRUTINY SHOULD BE MULTIPLE BUT
EMBRACED IS REALLY ALL THAT.
THEREFORE WE NEED MORE PUBLIC
SCRUTINY NOT LESS PUBLIC
SCRUTINY.
WHAT ABOUT AND I BELIEVE THAT
THE COMMITTEE REDUCES PUBLIC
SECURITY, REDUCES YOUR HELPING
US TO HAVE A WINDOW INTO HOW
GOVERNMENT WORKS AND HOW
GOVERNMENT DEALS WITH OUR TAX
DOLLARS.
>> WHAT IF MY NEIGHBORHOOD IN
THE LOCAL PROJECT I FORTUNATELY
OR WENT BY THE WAYSIDE WITH
PROPER DECISIONS?
THIRTY NINE IF YOU FIFTEEN
RALPH NADER THREE WE GOT FIFTY
ONE OF JUST A SMALL SAMPLE OF A
PROBLEM.
>> I WAS PROUD OF WHAT HE FELT
WE NEGOTIATED INTO MARGINAL TAX
EXEMPT FINANCING SITUATION SO
THERE ARE OPPORTUNITIES TO MAKE
THINGS BETTER AND FOR US TO
HAVE A WINDOW INTO HOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALAN HABOUR
SCOURGED HABOUR PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN DETROIT FREE STAR SIX
ON MUTE YOUR PHONE
MR. HABOUR
PHONE NUMBER 083 CRESTAR TEXT
ON YOUR PHONE
MAYOR IT APPEARS
MR. HABER'S ON ZOOM BUT HE IS
USING HIS PHONE
STREATOR TO
MUTE YOUR PHONE PRESS STAR SIX
STAR SIX
MR. HABOUR WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ZERO EIGHT THREE
YOU CAN SPEAK IF YOU PRESS STAR
SIX
MR. HABER WE ARE UNABLE TO
HEAR YOU IN THE ABSENCE OF OUR
BEING ABLE TO HEAR YOU AND WE I
THINK WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
FORWARD
.
IS THERE ANY COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL HOUSE MEMBER DISH?
THANK YOU.
UH, I WANT TO SAY THAT LAST
MONDAY COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE
DENHA OR COUNCILOR DENHA AND
SENATOR SCHLINK IRWIN AND
SOMERVILLE AS WELL AS
COMMISSIONER RABIE TOWARD THE
CITY'S MATERIALS RESOURCE
FACILITY.
AH SORTING FACILITY FOR OUR
RECYCLING IS PROCESSED.
IT'S REMARKABLY CLEAN.
IT'S WELL ORGANIZED.
IT HAS ENORMOUS BLOCKS OF TIN,
ALUMINUM, PLASTIC BOTTLES.
ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT GO TO
COMMODITY MARKETS.
BUT WE ALSO SAW A FEW BLOCKS
OF PLASTIC FILM.
THESE BAGS CONTAINED GIANT DOG
FOOD BAGS AND OTHER FORMS
OF CONTAINERS THAT CANNOT BE
RECYCLED.
WE WANT TO REDOUBLE OUR
COMMITMENT TO GET THESE OUT
OF OUR WASTE STREAM.
ALL RIGHT.
IS PAIRING UP WITH NON-PROFITS
ZERO WASTE AND PERPETUAL TO
SCALE UP OUR REUSABLE
RESTAURANT CONTAINER PROGRAM
CITYWIDE?
MAYBE SOME OF YOU PARTICIPATED
IN THE PILOT THAT WE HAD A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO AND THAT
REMAINS IN PLACE AT OUR RESULT
AMONG OTHER PLACES WHERE YOU
GET YOUR TAKEOUT FOOD IN A
CONTAINER THAT YOU CAN BRING
BACK, THEY WILL CLEAN IT AND
GIVE IT TO YOU AGAIN PERHAPS
NOT IN THAT VERY MINUTE BUT
THAT IT REMAINS IN CIRCULATION.
SO I RAISED PAIRING UP WITH OUR
UH WITH ZERO WASTE.
WE'RE IN PERPETUAL TO MAKE THIS
A CITY WIDE PROGRAM AND THEY
WOULD LIKE YOUR FEEDBACK TO
HELP THEM FIGURE OUT HOW TO DO
THAT.
SO LOOK FOR A SERIES
OF INTERACTIVE COMMUNITY
WORKSHOPS FOR ME.
TWENTY SECONDS.
TWENTY FIFTH I WILL PROVIDE
MORE DETAILS WHEN I HEAR THEM
AND I ALSO RECEIVED SOME TYPE
OF STATION FEE WAIVERS.
THIS IS WHERE YOU TAKE THINGS
THAT YOU CANNOT CURBSIDE
RECYCLE LIKE STYROFOAM METAL
ITEMS, TEXTILES, MOTOR OIL,
COOKING OIL.
THIS WAVES THE THREE HOUR
ENTRANCE FEE UM TO SET THEM
HERE FOR YOU.
AND I WANT TO SAY FINALLY THAT
I CELEBRATED EARTH DAY AWARD
ONE AT LESLI SCIENCE AND NATURE
CENTER WHERE I ENJOYED THE
CITY'S WATER TASTE TEST.
AND I WANT TO TELL YOU WHAT
WATER BOTTLE WATER CITY WATER.
I PREFERRED CITY WATER WITH
ALMOST NO COACHING, NO CALCIUM
.
BRACKMAN THANK YOU.
UM, AS MOST FOLKS KNOW, THE
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED THE
RESOLUTION IN MARCH DIRECTING
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO WORK
WITH INTRUSTED UTILITIES TO
BEGIN A RESPONSIBLE TRANSITION
TO CLEAN SAFE RENEWABLE ENERGY
FOR HEATING IN ANN THE WORK ON
THAT NEGOTIATION IS BEGINNING
AND THE CITY WOULD LIKE YOUR
FEEDBACK AS A RESULT THEY'RE
HOSTING TWO UM, LISTENING
SESSIONS.
THEY'RE VIRTUAL MAY 11TH AND
MAY 18TH AT SIX P.M. YOU NEED
TO REGISTER TO GET THE LINK.
YOU CAN FIND THE LINK BY TYPING
IN HEATING FRANCHISE LISTENING
SESSION INTO YOUR BROWSER.
>> THANK YOU.
SO FOR CORNELL WELL I WISH MY
UPDATE WAS A CITING AS COUNCIL
MEMBER DISHES I'M ALL IN ON THE
TO JUST REALLY QUICKLY AND
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS AND I ARE
HOSTING LISTENING HOURS EVERY
MONTH AND THIS MONTH OUR
LISTENING HOUR DOES NEED TO THE
SCHEDULE NEEDS TO BE CHANGED
FROM OUR REGULAR CADENCE.
AND SO INSTEAD OF THE SUNDAY
BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING
OF THIS MONTH WE WILL BE
MEETING ON SATURDAY, MAY 4TH AT
FOUR P.M. AT THE AC AND LIBERTY
ON MAY 13TH AT P.M. THANK YOU
COUNCILMAN ROYA.
>> THANK YOU.
WE WILL TALK ABOUT THIS IN MUCH
GREATER DETAIL WHEN THE ITEM
COMES UP ON THE AGENDA BUT I
DID WANT TO ADDRESS IT IN
COUNCIL NO COMMENTS BECAUSE WE
DID HAVE SO MANY PUBLIC
COMMENTERS ADDRESS THE THE
BROWNFIELD REVIEW COMMITTEE
DISSOLUTION AND SO I JUST VERY
BRIEFLY FOR THOSE WHO MAY BE
TUNING IN AND THEN MAYBE TUNING
OUT BEFORE WE GET TO THAT POINT
ON THE AGENDA, WHAT WE ARE
DOING IS GOING TO INCREASE
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND
TRANSPARENCY REGARDING THE
BROWNFIELD REVIEW PROCESS
INSTEAD OF A SMALL COMMITTEE
THAT MEETS, UM YOU KNOW,
QUIETLY WHEN THE PUBLIC ISN'T
PAYING ATTENTION AND RECEIVES
THE PRESENTATION FROM THE
DEVELOPER AT THAT POINT THAT
PART IS GOING AWAY.
THE ENTIRE BODY HERE WILL
RECEIVE THAT PRESENTATION FROM
THE DEVELOPER AND WILL BE ABLE
TO CONSIDER THE PLAN AS A BODY
SO THAT PROVIDES GREATER PUBLIC
SCRUTINY, IT PROVIDES GREATER
TRANSPARENCY AND IT PROVIDES
FOR THE ENTIRE OF THE COUNCIL
TO ASK THE QUESTIONS
OF DEVELOPER.
>> IT ALSO STREAMLINES THE
PROCESS.
YES, BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT TO
ASK THE DEVELOPER TO COME GIVE
THAT PRESENTATION DEVICE.
THEY SHOULDN'T NEED TO DO THAT
.
THAT JUST ADDS EXTRA COST TO
THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT WE ARE
TRYING TO ADDRESS BECAUSE WE
WERE TRYING TO BRING DOWN THOSE
COSTS WHERE POSSIBLE IN ORDER
TO MAKE DEVELOPMENT IN OUR CITY
MORE AFFORDABLE AND TO OPEN IT
UP TO MORE PEOPLE WHO YOU KNOW
MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO LOADS
OF CAPITAL AND YOU KNOW, SO WE
CAN SEE SOME SOME DIFFERENT
TYPES OF DEVELOPERS DOING
PROJECTS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO AGAIN, YOU KNOW, FOR THOSE
WHO MAY BE TUNING THIS, YOU
KNOW, IT'S THAT WE'LL TALK
ABOUT IT AGAIN LATER BUT IT IS
GOING TO INCREASE TRANSPARENCY
,PUBLIC PARTICIPATION, NOT
DECREASE IT.
>> COUNCILOR HARRISON, THANK
YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THAT
THERE WILL BE AN EQUITY
STANDARD COFFEE CHAT HOSTED BY
MYSELF COME MEMBERS COME FROM
MEMBER WATSON AND COUNCIL
MEMBER OF THE EDWYN AND THAT
WILL BE ON SUNDAY MAY TWENTY
FIRST FROM ONE TO THREE P.M. AT
WHEELER PARK.
SO WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE.
>> COUNCIL MEMBERS ON HAPPY MAY
1ST.
TODAY IS ALSO THE BEGINNING
OF ASIAN PACIFIC ASIAN ASIAN
AMERICAN PACIFIC ISLANDER
HERITAGE MONTH.
THERE ARE SOME EVENTS IN TOWN
BOOKS WE IS HOSTING THREE
READINGS TUESDAY MAY 16TH NINE
TO TEN SHIRLEY AGOUTIS, ATSUKO
SECRET HEART MOUNTAIN AND THE
LEGACY OF THE JAPANESE AMERICAN
INCARCERATION ON THURSDAY, MAY
18TH, TEN THIRTY TO ELEVEN
GRACELAND AUTHOR OF ONCE UPON A
BOOK WEDNESDAY MAY TWENTY
FOURTH ONE TO TWO P.M. ROBIN HA
AUTHOR OF ALMOST AMERICAN GIRL
AN ILLUSTRATED MEMOIR AS WELL
AS KUKRI AND A COMIC BOOK WITH
RECIPES.
UM I HOPE FOLKS CAN JOIN US IN
THESE COMMUNITY EVENTS WITH
FAMILY FRIENDLY AND CONSIDERING
THAT THE ASIAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY IN ANN ARBOR IS THE
LARGEST ETHNIC COMMUNITY IN THE
CITY AT ABOUT 18 PERCENT I
THINK WE CAN EXPECT A GOOD
SHOWING.
>> THANKS FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL OH
COUPLE OF THINGS FROM MY PART I
JUST WANT TO REPORT OUT SUPER
BRIEFLY I HAD THE PLEASURE
OF ATTENDING THE CITY'S SUMMIT
OF THE AMERICAS IN DENVER,
COLORADO WITH WITH DR. LAST
LAST WEEK AND PARTICIPATED IN
IN A NUMBER OF OF INTERESTING
PORTIONS ATTENDED A MASTERCLASS
WITH RESPECT TO REDUCING THE
USE OF FOSSIL GAS IN
COMMUNITIES, HEARING A GREAT
DEAL ABOUT THE INTERSECTION
BETWEEN GENDER EQUITY AND
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS,
PARTICULARLY AS ONE OF OUR
SPEAKERS NOTED WITH RESPECT TO
GENDER VIOLENCE AND
PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN THE
WORK BEING DONE IN OAKLAND,
CALIFORNIA, WHICH IS I THINK IT
SEEMS FROM THE GROUP TO BE
UNIQUE AND INSTRUCTIVE FURTHER
AND FINALLY PARTICIPATING IN A
ROUNDTABLE WITH RESPECT TO THE
ADVANCING OF AN EQUITABLE CLEAN
ENERGY TRANSITION.
THIS WAS A NUMBER OF MUNICIPAL
LEADERS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
FROM FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT
TO ECKLIE WITH SOME DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY SUPPORT AS WELL AND
MUNICIPAL LEADERS FROM SOUTH
AMERICA CENTRAL AMERICA AND
NORTH AMERICA.
IT WAS IT WAS QUITE AN EVENT.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
GREAT.
FIRST TO THE ANN ARBOR PUBLIC
COMMISSION ALLISON BACK TO THE
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS HUGH
FLAC GET ON STAFF TO THE
COMMUNICATIONS PART OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
ANTHONY RAMIREZ TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION TO TRY AND
GET RANDALL SADIR CLARK TO THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES.
MATTHEW SOLOMON TO THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD RICHARD MITCHELL
TAMARA BURNS TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
ALEXANDRA DKK TO THE ELIZABETH
FUND COMMITTEE.
LYNNE NIEBAUM AND BROOKS CURTIS
TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION.
ALEX ZELMAN TO THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
AND ERICHSON JAMES DOWNING AND
AMANDA CARLYLE TO THE HOUSING
BOARD OF PEEL'S TODD SOLECKI TO
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
JUDY GARBA THE HURON RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL.
RICHARD NORTON TO LOCAL
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY.
STEVEN REBUNDLE TO THE PARK
ADVISORY COMMISSION AND MAASDAM
MARZIN TO THE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
LISA YOUNG TO THE RECREATION
KURT SPODA TO THE RENTERS
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
COMMISSION.
KURT SPODA TO THE RENTERS
ROBERT KELLEY ZACHARIA PHARE TO
COMMISSION.
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
ROBERT KELLEY ZACHARIA PHARE TO
MOLLY KLEINMAN TO THE ZONING
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
APPEALS.
MOLLY KLEINMAN TO THE ZONING
>> DAVID DIVERTING
ALSO TO
THERE WILL BE A RESOLUTION TO
REPORT NON RESIDENT ELECTORS
AND OUR BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
WHO WILL BE TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE MARK PERRY
TO THE END OF OUR PUBLIC ART
COMMISSION MARY FEELS BRUFORD
TO THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS, ROBERT HART THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
MEEKA BARTOLOM TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
CHERISH SMITH JONATHAN OVERPECK
TO THE HOUSING COMMISSION.
STEPHEN DANIELS TO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
PAMELA MEADOWS TO THE RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL.
MOLLY MANUSKY TO THE PUBLIC
MARKET ADVISORY COMMISSION.
ERIC FARRELL INTO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION.
ARTHUR REDMOND TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY AND THEN I WOULD ALSO
LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION TO
PRELUTSKY TO ELIZABETH DENHA
FUND COMMITTEE MOLLY BOXIER TO
THE HOUSING HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD PETER SPORTSCAR
PARTIAL TERM WAS ANITA
RADCLIFFE AND ALAN RABINOWITZ
.
THAT WAS LAST YEAR NICOLE
GERBER SHE'S ON THANK YOU FOR
ASKING.
>> HAVE A MOTION WE PLEASE TO
PROVE THE CONSENT OF GENERAL BY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
SECOND, MY COUNCIL MEMBER
CHRONOLOGIES OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER IHR I'D
LIKE TO CALL SEE A FIVE FOUR
DISCUSSION FURTHER DISCUSSION
THE CONSENT AGENDA CATTERICK
WELL I WOULD LIKE TO PULL ITEM
C A THREE FOR DISCUSSION FOR
THE DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT THE THAT DISCUSSION OR
VOTE YOU'RE SO EXCITED TO VOTE.
>> I AM TO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
THE CONSENT WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF SAY FIVE AND SEE A THREE PCI
OPPOSED THE CONSENT AGENDA IS
APPROVED WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THREE AND FIVE OR 10 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE SATISFYING
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO THE ONE
C SIX THAT
IS ALL CFR RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT
WITH FRANCE AND CO INC FOR THE
W MADISON MADISON MADISON PLACE
WATER MAIN RESURFACING PROJECT
THE AMOUNT OF TWO MILLION ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS
AND TO APPROPRIATE ONE MILLION
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE
DOLLARS IN INTERNAL
CONTRIBUTING FUNDS MOVE I COUNT
NO IA A SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S DISCUSSION
PLEASE FIVE COUNCIL MEMBER
THANK YOU MAYOR.
>> SO I SPENT SEVERAL HOURS ON
FRIDAY WHICH APPROPRIATELY WAS
WORKERS MEMORIAL DAY LOOKING AT
THE WORKERS SAFETY INFORMATION
INCLUDED IN KONSTANZ PROPOSAL
FOR C FIVE.
WHAT I FOUND WAS HIGHLY
CONCERNING AND PROMPTED ME TO
ALSO REVIEW AN EARLIER PROJECT
THAT WE APPROVED AT THE TABLE
IN MARCH WITH THAT SAME COMPANY
.
SO FOR BOTH OUR PS SWANSON
LISTED THE SAME INCOMPLETE OSHA
TRAINING INFORMATION OSHA
CERTIFICATES FOR ONLY FOUR
EMPLOYEES.
THREE OF THOSE CERTIFICATES
WERE FROM 2011 ALONG WITH AN
EMAIL INDICATING THAT JUST
SEVEN MORE EMPLOYEES WERE
SIGNED UP FOR TRAINING SESSIONS
IN JANUARY AND MARCH.
HOWEVER, IN BOTH OUR PS UNDER A
DIFFERENT SECTION THE SECTION
FOR RATIO OF MASTERS TO
APPRENTICES THEY LIST MORE THAN
TWO DOZEN OTHER EMPLOYEES, NONE
OF WHOM ARE OSHA CERTIFIED OR
WILL BE ACCORDING TO THEIR OWN
PROPOSALS.
SO IN CONTRAST, THE CONTRACTOR
WHO WON SECOND PLACE IN THIS
BID SUBMITTED OSHA CERTIFICATES
FOR THIRTY FOUR OF ITS
EMPLOYEES SO FAR THESE
PROPOSALS FONTAIN ADMITTED AND
REVEALED THAT THEY HAD JUST TWO
LABORERS WHO WILL SUPPOSEDLY
HAVE THE TRAINING BY THE TIME
CONSTRUCTION BEGINS.
THE NINE OTHER EMPLOYEES WHO
HAVE THE TRAINING CERTIFICATES
OUR FOREMAN OR MANAGEMENT IT
BEGS THE QUESTION WHERE ARE THE
OSHA CERTIFICATES FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO WILL BE DOING THE
ACTUAL WORK BECAUSE I KNOW IT
WILL BE THE FOREMAN OR THE
MANAGEMENT.
THEREFORE BEFORE I CAN FEEL
COMFORTABLE APPROVING THIS
PROPOSAL TONIGHT I'M GOING TO
PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT THAT MAKES
IT CRYSTAL CLEAR TO MONSEN AND
TO EVERYONE ELSE THAT WE MEAN
IT WHEN WE SAY IN OUR OFFICE
AND IN OUR CONTRACTS THAT
COMPANIES MUST
PROVIDE EVIDENCE
THAT ALL CRAFT LABOR THAT WILL
BE EMPLOYED BY THE BITTER
ON
CITY PROJECTS HAS OR WILL HAVE
PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE
PROJECT COMPLETED AT LEAST AND
AUTHORIZED OUR OSHA
CONSTRUCTION SAFETY COURSE.
SO IF WE CAN CIRCULATE THE
AMENDMENT THIS WOULD BE ADDING
A RESULT CLAUSE.
IT HAS RESOLVED THE CONTRACT
SHALL BE AMENDED TO INCLUDE
PROVISIONS THAT REQUIRE THE
CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE THE NAMES
OF ALL CRAFT LABORERS WHO WILL
WORK ON THE PROJECT AND
SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE THAT EACH
OF THEM HAVE COMPLETED THE
PRESCRIBED OSHA SAFETY TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO WORK
COMMENCING ON THE PROJECT AND
THAT FAILURE TO PROVIDE SUCH
EVIDENCE SHALL CONSTITUTE A
BREACH OF CONTRACT.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND IF
I HAVE TO BE SO FRIENDLY TO THE
BODY FRONT OF THE BODY OK GREAT
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO CONCLUDE BY
SAYING YOU KNOW, I ASK STAFF TO
ENSURE THAT PRIOR TO
CONSTRUCTION ALSO BEGINNING ON
THE EARLIER PROJECT THAT WE UH
THAT IT IS OK I'LL COME AROUND
THE TIME EXCELLENT FOR THE
FURTHER DISCUSSION CASIMIRA
THANK YOU.
PICKING BACK UP SO I HAVE OUR
STAFF TO ENSURE THAT PRIOR TO
CONSTRUCTION BEGINNING ON THAT
PROJECT THAT WE ALREADY
COMPLETED THE ADVANCE AND ALSO
PROVIDE THE LIST OF EMPLOYEES
TO BE UTILIZED ON THAT PROJECT
ALONG WITH THEIR OSHA
CERTIFICATES AND I WAS TOLD
THAT UNFORTUNATELY IT WAS NOT A
PLANNED PART OF THE PROCESS BUT
NOW IT WILL BE.
I WAS ALSO TOLD THE STAFF
REACHED OUT TO FANTHAM TODAY
AND THEY RESPONDED THAT THEY
WILL COMPLY.
PERSONALLY I HOPE THIS DOESN'T
RESULT IN A DELAY ON THESE
PROJECTS BECAUSE IT SEEMS THEY
HAVE QUITE A FEW EMPLOYEES THAT
THEY NEED TO GET TRAINED THAT
THEY HAD NOT INTENDED TO GET
TRAINED.
>> AND PERSONALLY I'M ALSO
REALLY FRUSTRATED THAT THAT
THAT WAS THE CASE AND THAT IT
TOOK A COUNCIL MEMBER DIGGING
INTO THIS TO TO MAKE THIS
HAPPEN.
IT SHOULDN'T BE THAT THEY
SHOULD BE FOLLOWING OUR RULES
AND OUR CONTRACTS SO THAT YOU
KNOW, I'M TALKING ABOUT WORKER
SAFETY IS BETTER THAN WORKER
KNOW.
WHEN WE ASKED OUR WORKERS
MEMORIAL DAY RESOLUTION AND I'M
GOING TO CONTINUE TO BE TALKING
ABOUT WORKER SAFETY AND OUR
CITY PROJECTS FOR THE
DISCUSSION WE'RE DENHA OH SORRY
.
>> THAT'S MY BRIGS.
OK, AND THANKS TO COUNCILMAN
BRIERRE FOR ENSURING THAT PEACE
WAS IN PLACE, I JUST WANTED TO
FOR A SECOND TALK ABOUT THE
MERITS OF THE PROJECT BECAUSE
THIS IS WELL, IT'S A TYPICAL
WATER MAIN REPLACEMENT AND
CATCH BASSMAN REPLACEMENT ROAD
RESURFACING ON WEST MADISON
STREET AND MADISON PLACE.
THIS IS NEAR EVERGLADES SCHOOL
AND GRETCHEN'S HOUSE.
AND SO THERE'S SOME OTHER KIND
OF EXCITING ELEMENTS THAT ARE
IN GOING TO BE PUT INTO PLACE
AT THE END OF THE RESURFACING
AS WELL.
THERE'S GOING TO BE AROUND TURN
AROUND.
THERE'S GOING BE INTERSECTION
IMPROVEMENTS AT MASSEN STREET
AND EBRIGHT BOULEVARD INCLUDING
A MINI ROUNDABOUT CROSSWALKS,
PAVEMENT MARKINGS AND SIGNAGE
WHICH IS GREAT TO SEE THOSE
TYPES OF ELEMENTS INTEGRATED
INTO A ROAD RESURFACING PROJECT
AT THE END THAT SHOULD
DEFINITELY HELP WITH TRAFFIC
COMING IN THAT AREA AND IMPROVE
SCHOOL SAFETY.
THERE'S ALSO THE CONSTRUCTION
TO TURN AROUND THE CITY ON
PARCEL AT THE END OF SOUTH END
OF MADISON PLACE.
I THINK WE MAYBE RECALL
ACQUIRING THAT PARCEL A WHILE
BACK BUT SO ANYWAY SOME
EXCITING ELEMENTS IN THIS
PROJECT TO LOOK FORWARD TO IN
THE FIFTH WARD.
FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR.
>> OH, I'M SORRY.
SORRY BUT COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
WAS CUED UP BUT NOT I GUESS I'M
JUST KIND OF WONDERING, YOU
KNOW, GIVEN THE PROBLEM THAT
CAME UP AND COUNCIL NO HIGHER
HAVING TO DO ALL OF THIS REVIEW
ON FRIDAY, HOW CAN WE KIND
OF IMPROVE THE PROCESS GOING
FORWARD?
AND I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
REALLY A QUESTION THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER EITHER COULD ANSWER OR
STAFF OR MAYBE JUST RHETORICAL
ABOUT IMPROVING THE PROCESS SO
THAT WE CAN KIND OF AVOID THIS
HAPPENING AGAIN AND MAKE SURE
THAT PEOPLE ARE COMPLYING WITH
OUR RULES.
WOULD YOU WOULD YOU LIKE THAT
TO BE INTERPRETED AS A QUESTION
FOR THE LAW OR YOUR INTEREST IN
LEARNING HOW WE'RE GOING TO.
>> YEAH, I THINK IT'S JUST AN
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST.
>> IT DOES NOT NEED TO BE
ANSWERED RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED IS APPROVE A TOWN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THAT
SATISFIES THE REQUIREMENT FOR
ANY RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH
EXCAVATING FOR THE BROOK STREET
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT THE AMOUNT
OF THREE MILLION FOUR HUNDRED
AND FORTY FIVE THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED NINE DOLLARS AND TWENTY
ONE CENTS AND TO APPROPRIATE
TWO MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED AND
THIRTY FOUR THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS IN CONTRIBUTING
FUNDS MOVED BY COUNCILMAN
QUENELLE SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BACK IN DISCUSSION
PLEASE SEE THREE COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL AND I THANK YOU MAYOR.
THIS WAS THIS PARTICULAR
STRETCH OF ROAD WAS ONE THAT I
WALKED MANY TIMES WHILE
KNOCKING DOORS THE SUMMER AND
YOU KNOW, I THINK THE SIZE
OF THIS CONTRACT AND THE
CONSIDERATIONS ESPECIALLY
AROUND THE PUBLIC FEEDBACK THAT
WE'VE HEARD ABOUT PRESERVING
TREES AND WHATNOT, THERE'S JUST
BEEN A LOT OF PUBLIC INTEREST
IN IT AND I WAS HOPING THAT MR.
STIEGLITZ OR SOMEBODY ELSE THAT
MR. TONY WOULD PROP UP FOR US
COULD INTRODUCE AND GIVE A
BRIEF OVERVIEW OF EXACTLY WHAT
THIS PROJECT INVOLVES SINCE MR.
HUTCHINSON SHOULD BE AVAILABLE
WITHOUT YES TO THE ENGINEER, I
CAN GIVE A BRIEF OVERVIEW
OF THE PROJECT HERE.
IT INCLUDES A REPLACEMENT
OF THE WATER MAIN ROADS
RESURFACING THE STREET AS WELL.
WE WILL BE FILLING IN SOME
SIDEWALK ALONG THE STRETCH
OF THE ROAD AND ALSO SOME
STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS WITH
THE TENSION WILL ALSO BE
RECONFIGURING THE INTERSECTION
FURTHER SPUR OF THE NORTH END
THAT CREATES SOME SPACE ALSO
FOR ADDITIONAL SURFACE WATER
FEATURES.
THAT'S ALL OK, THANK YOU.
>> MR. HUTCHINSON, CAN YOU TALK
A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THE
STORMWATER RETENTION AND SOME
OF THAT THEIR GOALS FOR THAT
WORK THAT THE CITY IS AWARDING
A CONTRACT FOR?
>> I'M SURE FOR THAT I'M
ACTUALLY GOING TO INTRODUCE
TERESA BRIDGES HERE WHO WAS OUR
PROJECT MANAGER FOR THE PROJECT
.
SHE'S GOING TO HAVE A LITTLE
BIT MORE DETAIL ON THAT AS
WELL.
TURN IT OVER.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I CAN HELP YOU UNDERSTAND ABOUT
THE STORMWATER THAT WE
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE
SPECIFIED IN THE PROJECT.
IT INCLUDES SOME EXCUSE ME
DETENTION WITHIN THE ALLEN
CREEK WATERSHED NEAR THE
UPSTREAM PART OF THE WATERSHED
AND STEBBINGS WILL BE
INSTALLING LARGE 36 INCH PIPES
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED FEET
UNDERGROUND UNDER IN THE
VICINITY OF THE INTERSECTION
WITH FIGHTING IN WE'LL RESTRICT
THAT FLOW AND THEN THE FLOW
DOWN FIGHTING IN THE STORM
WHERE IT WAS OTHERWISE GOING
THROUGH UNDETAILED.
>> SO THAT WILL HELP THE CREEK
WATERSHED IN ADDITION BECAUSE
WE ARE CAPTURING SPACE IF YOU
WILL IN THE SUNSET VESPER
INTERSECTION WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE A BYROADE
RETENTION BASIN IN WHICH WE ARE
CAPTURING SOME OF THE DRAINAGE
FROM VESTBERG AS WELL AS AS
WELL AS SUNSET AND THAT WILL
HELP TO IMPROVE QUALITY
OF STORMWATER THAT WILL THEN BE
RELEASED INTO THE SYSTEM THAT
GOES DIRECTLY TO THE RIVER.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT'S REALLY HELPFUL.
MY GOD THAT IS YOUR TIME BUT
YOU MIGHT YOU MIGHT GET A
SECOND SHOT FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL.
MCCONNELL I JUST I THINK REALLY
QUICKLY JUST TO ECHO WHAT CATHY
LANIER BRIGGS MENTIONED ABOUT
THE PROJECT THAT'S HAPPENING
OVER BY EBRIGHT ELEMENTARY
WHERE MY MY DAUGHTER GOES I'M
REALLY PLEASED TO SEE SOME
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS NOT
JUST A WATER MAIN REPLACEMENT,
NOT JUST A RESURFACING.
I APPRECIATE THE THOUGHTFULNESS
OF STAFF ON THIS AND I KNOW
THAT, YOU KNOW, WE HEAR A LOT
ABOUT FLOODING IN THAT AREA AND
I'M EXCITED TO SEE THAT BEING
ADDRESSED HERE TODAY AND I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS FURTHER
DISCUSSION FAVOR POST IS
APPROVED 10 COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT PART
OF ME TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
HEARING ONE NEED NOT HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFICS SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
IN ALL CASES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER ONE AND ORGANIZE
TO AMEND SECTION TWO YOUR
CHAPTER TWO TWENTY NINE WATER
EIGHT SUBTITLE TWO OF THE
CODE OF CITY RUBBER.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
HELLO MY NAME IS JEFF AND I
LIVE ON THE NORTH SIDE.
I DON'T THINK I MEAN I KNOW I
DIDN'T EVER VOTE FOR WATER OR
STORMWATER INCREASE IN MY FOUR
YEARS IN COUNCIL
AND MR. MAYOR
HAS BEEN HERE SINCE TWENTY
FOURTEEN AND WELL ALONG WITH
ALL THE OTHER CHANGES WE'VE
SEEN IN OUR COMMITTEE SINCE
TWENTY FOURTEEN THIS WILL PUT
US ON TRACK TO HAVE A DOUBLING
OF OUR WATER RATES AND
STORMWATER RATES BY THE END
OF THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
OF YOU DO ANY KIND
OF INVESTMENT I HAVE EVER HEARD
OF THE RULE OF 72 BUT WE GO SIX
SEVEN PERCENT EVERY YEAR.
TEN YEARS YOU'RE DOUBLED AND
THAT'S WHERE WE'RE AT NOW WE'RE
NOT PRODUCING TWICE AS MUCH
WATER.
WE'RE STILL DOING UP TO 19
MILLION SOME GALLONS A DAY.
THE COST FOR PRODUCING THAT
WATER HASN'T DOUBLED IN THOSE
TEN YEARS.
INFLATION ISN'T RUNNING AT
SEVEN PERCENT ALTHOUGH UNDER
THE CURRENT LOCAL, LOCAL, STATE
AND FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC
ADMINISTRATIONS IT CERTAINLY IS
PUSHING IT THIS YEAR.
SO WHY IS IT THAT WE'RE
DOUBLING FOLKS WATER RATES IN
LESS THAN A DECADE AND IS THERE
ANY CONSIDER THAT THESE COSTLY
INCREASES IN FEES, FEES FOR
SERVICES AND SO ON THAT SEEM
AND UNSTOPPABLE AREN'T BEING
CONSIDERED AS A IT'S
DETRIMENTAL TO OUR EFFORTS TO
CREATE A MORE AFFORDABLE AND
EQUITABLE COMMUNITY BECAUSE
THERE'S THERE'S NO WAY THAT YOU
CAN THE CITY CAN DOUBLE AT A
HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION IN
SPENDING TO ITS BUDGET AND
THAT'S COMING ANOTHER HEARING
DOUBLE PRICE FOR WATER JACK UP
FEES FOR EVERY KIND OF SERVICE
THE CITY HAS TO DO AND SAY WITH
A STRAIGHT FACE THAT YOU'RE
WORKING TOWARDS EQUITY AND YOU
CARE ABOUT PEOPLE WHO LIVE
BELOW THE MEDIAN INCOME HERE
AND NOW I RECOGNIZE THAT THE
MEDIAN INCOME HERE IN
WASHINGTON ARE GOING TO GREATER
IN URBAN AREAS QUITE HIGH
BECAUSE OF OUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE UNIVERSITY AND THE
FACT THAT THERE HAS ALWAYS OF A
WEALTHY WHITE COMMUNITY AS IT
MAY.
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE IN THIS
COMMUNITY WHO STRUGGLE AND I
THINK THE LINE UP FOR OUR
ASSISTED HOUSING PROVES THAT.
SO JUST AS YOU GO FORWARD WITH
JACKING UP COSTS TO LIVE IN OUR
COMMUNITY, CONSIDER THAT THERE
IS MORE THAN ONE WAY TO MAKE IT
AN AFFORDABLE COMMUNITY AND ONE
WAY IS TO NOT JACK UP COSTS FOR
EVERYBODY.
>> THE CITY'S ONLY
RESPONSIBILITY AS FAR AS I'M
CONCERNED, THE NUMBER ONE
RESPONSIBILITY OF A
MUNICIPALITY LIKE THE CITY
OF IT IS TO PROVIDE SAFE CLEAN
WATER.
YOU SHOULD BE AT OTHER PLACES
THAN THE TAXPAYER'S WALLET FOR
THAT.
>> BUT THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
HEARING AT?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEAR NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO SECTION TWO SIX
NINE TO CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
STORM WATER RIGHTS AND TITLE
TWO OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
THAT HARBOR IS THERE ANYONE IN
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE LINE WITH THAT
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
MAYOR, I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
FOR THIS FOR THIS YEAR.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
THREE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE PUBLIC
SERVICES AREA ENGINEERING
PUBLIC WORKS SYSTEMS PLANNING
WATER TREATMENT UNITS AND THE
FEET AND FACILITIES AIRPORT
OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATORS
OFFICE.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO LIKE TO
SPEAK THERE?
ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC?
>> YEAH I DID THIS ONE TO SO
FOLKS OUT THERE IN THE
COMMUNITY WHO HAVEN'T GONE
THROUGH THIS CAN GET A SENSE
OF WHAT WHAT HAPPENS HERE WITH
THE CITY.
SO MY HOUSE WAS BUILT NINETEEN
1947 AND EVEN WHEN IT WAS BUILT
IT WAS BUILT AND INCLUDING THE
CHANGES TO CODE THAT ZONING
DESIGNATIONS AND AREA AND
PLACEMENT REGULATIONS HAVE
CHANGED SINCE THEN.
IT WAS CONSIDERED A
NONCONFORMING AND SO WHEN I
WENT TO PUT ADDITION ON MY
HOUSE THAT DIDN'T INCREASE THE
FOOTPRINT OF MY HOUSE IN ANY
WAY BUT IT WAS ONLY ABOVE THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING
FOOTPRINT I WAS ASKED TO APPEAL
THEIR REJECTION OF THAT PLAN BY
SUBMITTING ADAPTATION FOR THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND
WHEN I CALLED THE PERSON WHO
ADMINISTERS THAT AND HE SAID I
CAN TELL BY MY GPS YOU'RE ABOUT
THIRTEEN TO SIX INCHES OFF
LOOKING AT THE HISTORICAL
RECORDS OF YOUR HOUSE AND SO ON
AND IT'S CLEAR THAT YOU'RE IN
FRONT OF THAT AND EVERY PLACE
I'VE EVER KNOWN ANY PLACE I'VE
EVER WORKED THIS IS AN
ADMINISTRATIVE FIX BECAUSE WE
RECOGNIZE THAT THIS HAPPENS
CONSTANTLY AND IF YOU LOOK AT
THE ZIBA RECORDS AND THOSE
OF YOU WHO SERVE ON THE JOB,
YOU'LL SEE THAT THIS HAPPENS
CONSTANTLY.
PEOPLE COME WITH THIS THEIR
HOUSE WAS OUT OF AND THEY
APPROVE IT AND THAT'S WHAT
HAPPENED TO ME.
BUT THE WAY THAT I PAID A
THOUSAND DOLLAR FEE FOR THAT
APPLICATION PRIVILEGE AND I
ALSO WAS REQUIRED TO GET A
FOURTEEN HUNDRED DOLLAR STATE
SURVEY THEY WOULDN'T ACCEPT THE
SURVEY AND THAT I HAD I HAD TO
GET A NEW STATE SURVEY AND IT
TOOK QUITE A WHILE TO FIND
SOMEONE DURING KOVA TO DO THAT.
BUT IT WAS DONE SO TWENTY FOUR
HOURS LATER THEY WENT LIKE THAT
WHICH COULD HAVE BEEN DONE
ADMINISTRATIVELY.
I ONLY BRING THAT UP AS AN
EXAMPLE BECAUSE I'M NOT SURE
PEOPLE KNOW THAT FOR TWENTY
FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS TO A VERY
SMALL PROJECT YOU KNOW, COULD
BE A BURDEN FOR SOMEONE.
IT COULD DRAG OUT A PROJECT IN
MY CASE IT CERTAINLY DID.
I COULD SHOULD I PAY A LAWYER
OR ZIBA OR MY ARCHITECT?
WELL WHEN I LOOK AT THE THIRTY
SIX PAGES OF INCREASES THAT YOU
GOT COMING HERE INCLUDING ONE
THAT'S REAL REAL GOOD FOR YOU
AND THE AIRPORT UNIT WE KNOW
SHOULD EVERYBODY THE AIRPORT
CONTRACT FOR THIRTY YEARS NOW
THEY'RE GOING TO JACK UP THE
RATES YOU CAN CHARGE IT.
THAT'S REALLY EXTRA SPECIAL BUT
WHEN I LOOK AT THAT THIRTY SIX
PAGES OF FEES THAT HAVE GONE UP
BETWEEN SEVEN FORTY PERCENT I
CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND FROM
BEYOND ON THAT SIDE OF TABLE
THAT WE HAVE TO DO A THOROUGH
ANALYSIS OF WHAT OUR COSTS ARE
AND WE HAVE TO SET THE FEES
THAT WAY.
BUT IF YOU TOOK THE TIME TO
READ THROUGH THIS YOU'D SEE
THAT SOME OF THESE FEES ARE
PRETTY ASTRONOMICAL AND SOME
OF THESE CHANGES ARE GOING TO
BENEFIT PEOPLE WHO CAN AFFORD
IT.
THEY'RE GOING TO HURT PEOPLE
WHO CAN'T.
AND SO WE'RE BACK TO THE SAME
STORY AGAIN.
HOW CAN WE BELIEVE YOU WHEN YOU
SAY YOU WANT TO HAVE A
COMMUNITY THAT'S EQUITABLE AND
WELCOMING AND AFFORDABLE WHEN
YOU DO THINGS LIKE THIS?
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE LINE YOU'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN SIX FOUR FOUR?
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
I HAVE A COMMENT FOR I'M
HEARING FIVE PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIVE IT IS NOT JUST PUBLIC
HEARING THREE THEN I WILL WAIT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS FOR THIS
HEARING
ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC CARRY NO FOR
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE COMMUNITY
SERVICES AREA.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
MARY DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP FOR THIS
HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
FIVE RESOLUTION TO ADOPT ANN
ARBOR CITY BUDGET AND RELATED
PROPERTY TAX RATES FOR FISCAL
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
JUST COME ON UP
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I'M CAROLYN MURPHY.
I LIVE AT THREE FIFTY WITH THE
VISTA STREET IN MORDECAI.
I THANK THE COUNCIL FOR GIVING
US THE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE
COMMENTS ABOUT THE PROPOSED
BUDGET.
I SPEAK FOR THE ORGANIZATION
AND ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER.
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS OF TRYING
TO CREATE A PUBLIC ELECTRIC
UTILITY TO REPLACE DDE BECAUSE
IT USES MAINLY FAF FUELS TO
PRODUCE ITS ENERGY AND THUS
STANDS IN THE WAY OF ALLOWING
ARIBA TO REACH ITS GOAL OF NET
ZERO CARBON EMISSIONS BY 20 30.
IT ALSO HAS HAD TERRIBLY
UNRELIABLE SERVICE THIS PAST
WINTER WE'VE HAD TO PUT A
PLACEHOLDER THAT IS NEVER FOR
PUBLIC POWER.
WE'D LIKE TO PUT A PLACEHOLDER
IN THE BUDGET OF TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS TWO FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS WHICH WOULD GO
TOWARD THE VALUATION
OF THESE
ASSETS IF THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
WHICH THE COUNCIL AUTHORIZED
AND FUNDED AND IS EXPECTED TO
BE COMPLETED IN JUNE LOOKS
POSITIVE IN OTHER WORDS, IF THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY LOOKS
POSITIVE IN THE NEXT STEP WOULD
BE TO HAVE A MORE PRECISE
VALUATION THAN THESE ASSETS WE
ANTICIPATE TALKING TO CITIES
THAT HAVE UNDERGONE LIQUIDATION
OF PUBLIC ELECTRIC UTILITIES
THAT THIS WOULD BE THE COST TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND SINCE WE
KNOW THAT THE RESULT IS THAT WE
WON'T KNOW THE RESULTS, THE
FEASIBILITY UNTIL JUNE BUT THE
BUDGET NEEDS TO BE PASSED IN
TWO WEEKS.
WE'RE ASKING FOR A PLACEHOLDER
IN THE BUDGET TO ENSURE THAT
FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE IF THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY COMES OUT TO
THE COUNCIL'S LIKING AND THEY
WANT TO GO AHEAD WITH THE
VALUATION STUDY, THEY WOULD
HAVE BEEN THE MONEY TO DO IT.
THIS IS A RELATIVELY SMALL ASK
IN WHAT HAS COME TO BE BECOME A
VERY LARGE BUDGET.
I URGE YOU TO PUT THIS
PLACEHOLDER IN THE BUDGET SO IT
WILL BE POSSIBLE TO FOLLOW
THROUGH WITH THIS PLAN TO
ESTABLISH A MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC
UTILITY IN HANOVER IF THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY SHOWS THAT
THE PROCESS CAN GO FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL AND MY
FELLOW CITIZENS OF OUR MEMBER
AND STAFF PRESENT I AM STILL
DR. LAWRENCE SERGEANT STILL
UNDERWAY IN ANN ARBOR AND MY
AIR IS STILL ON FIRE BECAUSE
I'M STILL WORRIED ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE AND SOME OF YOU MIGHT
ASK WHAT ON EARTH DOES
AMERICA'S ELECTRIC UTILITY HAVE
TO DO WITH CLIMATE CHANGE?
WELL, WE IN WASHINGTON THREE
FIFTY EXAMINED LEADERS AT EVERY
LEVEL WHERE WE COULD APPLY OUR
EFFORTS TOWARD CLIMATE ACTION
AND WE UNDERSTOOD THAT WE NEED
TO ELECTRIFY EVERYTHING AND
POWER IT WITH RENEWABLES AND
EFFICIENCY.
>> AND WE ALSO CONCLUDED THAT
THE ONLY PRACTICAL USABLE TOOL
IS A MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW WE'RE STUCK
WITH DTT AND THEY DO NOT SHARE
OUR CLIMATE GOALS.
THEY ACTIVELY FIGHT THE JUST
TRANSITION AS THE BIGGEST
LOBBYIST IN LANSING WITH OUR
MONEY AND THERE'S NOTHING WE
CAN DO ABOUT IT SHORT
OF SEVERING THAT RELATIONSHIP.
THE LEGISLATURE AND NPC ARE DE
FACTO REGULATED BY THE INVESTOR
OWNED UTILITIES AND CONSUMERS
VIA THEIR DONATIONS, THEIR
FINANCIAL DONATIONS ONLY SIX
OUT OF OUR CURRENT CROP
OF LEGISLATORS MOST OF THEM
AROUND THIS AREA HAVE REFUSED
TO TAKE THEIR MONEY.
IT'S LITERALLY THE FOX GUARDING
THE HENHOUSE.
THERE'S ONLY ONE TOOL THAT CAN
ALLOW US TO BREAK THREE FREE
FROM THEM FOR ELECTRICITY AND
THAT IS LEGAL AS A MUNICIPAL
UTILITY IT IS LEGAL AND STATUTE
AND THE MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION
AND EVERY CITY ALWAYS HAS A
RIGHT TO ITS OWN ELECTRIC
FRANCHISE ADMINISTRATOR TONY
WAS VERY WISE TO SETTING ASIDE
SOME MONEY IN THE BUDGET FOR
UNANTICIPATED AND EMERGENT
COSTS.
AN ADDITIONAL FEASIBILITY STUDY
SHOWED THE ORIGINAL FEASIBILITY
STUDY THAT COUNCIL ALREADY
APPROVED.
BE POSITIVE THAT IT LOOKS LIKE
THIS WOULD BE GOOD FINANCIAL
DECISION FOR THE CITY TO DO IT.
WE'VE GOT TO THEN HAVE THE
MONEY TO VALUE THE ASSETS TO DO
A FEASIBILITY STUDY TO VALUE
THOSE ASSETS AND SOMETHING THAT
I REALLY APPRECIATED IN HEARING
THE BUDGET PRESENTATION I WAS
THINKING ABOUT WAYS THAT WE CAN
PUT SOME STABILITY AND
PREDICTABILITY INTO OUR BUDGET
RIGHT NOW IT GIVES US
ABSOLUTELY NO CONTROL OVER IT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT CITIES
WITH MUNICIPAL UTILITIES ENJOY
IS THAT BUDGET STABILITY
HOLLAND ACTUALLY HAD WITH A
NICE ELECTRIC MUNICIPAL UTILITY
HAD A PROBLEM TWICE WITHIN THE
LAST DECADE HOW TO RETURN ALL
THE EXTRA MONEY THAT THEY GOT
FROM THE REVENUES FROM
CUSTOMERS THEY HAD TO RETURN
MONEY BECAUSE THEY HAD TOO MUCH
AND THEY ALSO PAY THINGS TO THE
CITIES IN WHICH THEY RESIDE
CALLED PILOT FEES PAYMENT IN
LIEU OF TAXES AND ALSO THE
ELECTRIC UTILITIES BORROW MONEY
FOR INFRASTRUCTURE REPAIRS AT
HALF THE RATE THAT IT DOES.
>> IT'S A BUDGET NO BRAINER.
SO PLEASE SAVE SOME SPACE FOR
STEP TWO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
THANKS AGAIN
.
I REALLY LIKE KEN GARBER.
HE'S HE'S WHAT SOME PEOPLE ON
THIS BODY I THINK LIKE THE
LEAST WHICH IS AN
ENVIRONMENTALIST WHO CAN DO
MATH SO I THOUGHT IT USEFUL TO
ME WHEN I READ THE BUDGET EVERY
YEAR WHICH I'VE BEEN DOING
SINCE TWENTY TWELVE OR SO MAYBE
EVEN BEFORE THAT TO LOOK AT IN
A COMPARATIVE WAY AND ALSO TO
GET THE PER CAPITA WAY AND ALSO
LOOK FOR TRENDS AND I BELIEVE
THIS IS THE ONLY PUBLIC HEARING
ON THE BUDGET WHICH IS JUST
KIND OF SHOCKING BECAUSE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN I I HAD TO WORK IN THE
FOR TWENTY EIGHTEEN WITH A
BUDGET THAT WAS APPROVED BEFORE
ME AND TWENTY EIGHTEEN IT WAS
QUITE A BIT SMALLER I THINK IT
WAS FOUR HUNDRED I WOULD SAY
FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY ONE MILLION
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND THIS
YEAR IT'S SIXTY THREE AND I
ACTUALLY LOST THAT I THOUGHT I
WAS GOING TO BE FIVE SEVENTY SO
THAT'S NO IS IT FORTY FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS FOR EVERY
SINGLE PERSON THAT LIVES IN OUR
COMMUNITY PER YEAR IT'S A
HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO MILLION
INCREASE IN ONLY SIX YEARS
THAT'S QUITE THAT'S QUITE A
CHUNK OF CHANGE.
THOSE ARE ONLY GOING UP ONE
POINT NINE LS OR WHATEVER AND
THAT'S BECAUSE OF THE VARIOUS
YOU ABOUT INITIATIVES THAT WERE
PASSED.
IF YOU LOOK BACK AT THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN THING YOU CAN SEE THEY
HAD PLACEHOLDERS IN THERE FOR
SIX HUNDRED TWENTY SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS IN ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION FUNDS WHICH IS
KIND OF SHOCKING I'M SURE BY
THE TIME THIS BUDGET IS DONE
BEING BEING ITSELF IN TWO YEARS
IT'LL BE SIX HUNDRED MILLION
YOU KNOW JUST THE BUDGET
ITSELF.
SO IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN WE HAD
TWO AND A HALF MILLION AND ONE
TIME REQUESTS AND THIS YEAR WE
HAVE FOUR MILLION ONE TIME
REQUESTS TO A HUNDRED THOUSAND
THAT'S FOR STUDIES.
THERE'S LOTS OF FUNDS PAID
FORWARD THAT WAS KIND
OF INTERESTING IN THIS THING I
SEE THE MOST WE'RE BACKING UP
ONE STEP WHEN I RECEIVED MY
FIRST BUDGET CYCLE PRESENTATION
IN 2018 2019 IT IS ABOUT EIGHTY
PAGES AND THAT'S NOT THE BUDGET
BOOK I'M TALKING ABOUT THE
PRESENTATION AND IT'S ABOUT
EIGHT AND YOU KNOW I'D SAY THIS
BUT IT KIND OF GAVE ME THE VIBE
THAT STAFF'S GOT A NUMBER, YOU
KNOW WE GOT SEVEN HUNDRED AND
FORTY FULL TIME EQUIVALENT IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN EIGHT HUNDRED
AND FORTY THIS YEAR.
>> IT'S REALLY SOMETHING THAT'S
WHERE A LOT OF MONEY IS GOING
NOW THERE SEEMS TO BE A
CONSTANT QUEST FOR REVENUE.
WE'RE POSITIONING OURSELVES FOR
A LONG TERM IMPACT AND THIS
CONSTANT QUEST FOR REVENUE
FLOWS TO TWO THINGS HAPPENING
HERE ONE REVENUE AND ONE
EXPENDITURE.
THE ONE AND SO HARD FOR
REVENUE.
HOW COME IT DIDN'T HAPPEN THAT
THE PILOT PROGRAM THAT CITY
COUNCIL THAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO
APPOINT A COMMITTEE AND STUDY A
PILOT PROGRAM AND THERE WAS
EVEN ANTICIPATE AN AMOUNT
OF REVENUE COMING FROM THAT BUT
THAT JUST BETWEEN THE CRACKS IN
THE EXPENDITURE THAT FALL
BETWEEN THE CRACKS WAS ANOTHER
COUNCIL RESOLUTION PASSED THAT
SAID THERE'S SUPPOSED TO BE
MONEY IN THIS BUDGET FOR AN
OFFICE OF THE OMBUDSMAN AND
THAT IS TO BE IN YEAR TWO.
SO WE HAD FAILURES ON BOTH
SIDES OF THIS BUDGET AND THAT
IS ONE OF THOUSANDS I FOUND IN
THAT BOOK.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE
TO PLEASE UH HI.
>> MY GUY KYLE I LIVE AT FIVE
TWENTY TWO MILLER AND NEVER AND
I DON'T HAVE A LOT TO SAY
ALTHOUGH I JUST WANTED TO
MENTION I'M HERE TONIGHT ALONG
WITH MY FRIENDS IN A OF A POWER
SUPPORTING THE LAYING ASIDE
SOME MONEY FOR VALUING THE
POLES AND WIRES.
THANK YOU MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
THANK AMERICA.
EVERYTHING OVER AGAIN.
I LIVE IN THE SECOND WORD AND
LIKE THIS EVERY SERGEANT AND
KYLE I'M HERE ALSO TO REQUEST A
BUDGET PLACEHOLDER FOR
EVALUATION STUDY OF DTD ASSETS
UM SHOULD THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
UM LEAD YOU TO DECIDE TO TAKE
THE NEXT STEP IN THE MUNICIPAL
VALIDATION PROCESS I AND SAY
THAT I APPRECIATE THE
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF WORK THAT
STAFF HAS PUT INTO THIS PROJECT
,ESPECIALLY ADMINISTRATOR TONY
.
BUT ALL DOWN THE LINE UM SO UM
I THINK RIGHT.
MISS MURPHY SAID THIS IS A
RELATIVELY SMALL ASK A QUARTER
MILLION DOLLARS AND NOT A
NATURAL ALLOCATION SIMPLY A
PLACEHOLDER UM, I JUST THINK
THIS STRIKES ME AS PRETTY
AFFORDABLE AND IT IS THAT WAY
BECAUSE FIVE WEEKS IS ALREADY
DOING MUCH OF THE WORK IN THE
ONGOING FEASIBILITY STUDY.
ALSO A LOT OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IS OPEN TO
VISUAL INSPECTION AND AS A
REGULATED UTILITY DTT HAS
SUBMITTED A LOT OF INFORMATION
ALREADY TO THE STATE ON ACID
CONDITION AND DEPRECIATION.
SO THE SYSTEM IS NOT A BLACK
BOX.
UM
, AS I WAS SITTING THERE I
REMEMBER I DID READING IN THE
BUDGET DOCUMENTS UM IT'S A
MINOR POINT BUT GETTY IF I'M
REMEMBERING RIGHT IS RAISING
OUR STREET RIGHT ENERGY RATE BY
FOURTEEN PERCENT THIS YEAR BY
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
AND AN ADDITIONAL DOUBLE DIGIT
INCREASE NEXT FISCAL AT TWENTY
FIVE.
SO THIS IS MORE THAN WELCOME
JUST WITH THIS PLACEHOLDER I'M
I'M CONFIDENT THAT A MEETING
CAN DELIVER ELECTRICITY AS
AFFORDABLY AS DTG AND AS THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS HAVE SAID
HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO UH
ACQUIRE ELECTRICITY ON THE
WHOLESALE MARKET?
>> THAT'S A HUNDRED RENEWABLE.
SO I REALIZE THIS IS A
CONTROVERSIAL TOPIC AND BUT I
THINK THIS IS A VERY MINOR AND
PRUDENT STEP THAT YOU CAN
TONIGHT UH, NOT TONIGHT BUT IN
THE NEXT FEW WEEKS THAT YOU
COMPLETE THE BUDGET UM, TO MAKE
AN ALLOWANCE FOR THIS
POSSIBILITY.
UH, SECONDS LEFT AND ALL I CAN
SAY IS THAT UM AGAIN I
APPRECIATE ALL OF ALL YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE BUDGET AND
ALSO MY COMMENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OR ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE I KNOW I KNOW
THAT TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING, MAYOR, WE HAVE SEVERAL
CALLERS ON MY CALLER THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN THREE, FOUR,
FIVE PHONE NUMBER THREE FOUR
FIVE STAR SIX OF YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
HI, MISS PIGGY.
CAN I LIVE BEFORE I'M HAPPY TO
SEE YOUR BAND SHOW BETTER?
>> I HOPE THE BANJO WILL BE
REPAIRED AND WE SITUATED SO IT
WILL SERVE THE PURPOSE AND BE
USED FOR CONCERT IN THE PARK
ONCE AGAIN IT'S A MATTER OF OUR
CITY'S HISTORY.
I'M SURPRISED THAT THE CITY
PLANS TO SPEND A LOT OF MONEY
TO MAKE A FULL INTO SO CALLED
BICENTENNIAL PARK.
THE CITY HAS SAID OVER AND OVER
THAT IT HAS NO MONEY FOR MORE
BIRDS AND YET THERE SEEMS TO BE
PLENTY OF MONEY FOR THE ALSO I
HAVE LEARNED FROM SUSAN WIBERG
IN OUR STORY AND ITS FULLER
PARK WAS A DENHA FOR THE FULLER
FAMILY AND NOT MERELY FOR THE
ROAD.
SO I FEEL THE NAMES SHOULD NOT
BE CHANGE AGAIN.
>> IT'S A MATTER OF HONORING
OUR TROOPS HISTORY ESPECIALLY
IN THIS BICENTENNIAL YEAR.
>> I KNOW THAT THERE IS
ABSOLUTELY NO MONEY FOR THE
CITY IN THE BUDGET ALTHOUGH
CITY PRESIDENT MANDATED THAT
OF THE CITY.
>> WELL WE HAVE A PROPOSAL A ON
THE OTHER HAND THERE IS THE
MONEY FOR THIS GREEN LIGHT RAIL
WHICH WAS NOT VOTED ON BY CITY
RESIDENTS AT ALL.
>> I URGE YOU TO PUT MONEY IN
THE BUDGET TO CLEAN UP THE
TAXMAN'S AT FOUR FIFTEEN
WASHINGTON THIS IS CITY
PROPERTY AND THE CITY HAS KNOWN
ABOUT THESE TAXES FOR YEARS AND
HAS DONE NOTHING AND NOW WE
KNOW THAT THESE TAXES ARE
SPREADING.
>> THE CITY WANTS TO WAIT YEARS
UNTIL A DEVELOPER COMES FORWARD
,MEETS ALL THE NECESSARY PLANS
AND GETS ALL THE NECESSARY
APPROVAL AND ALL THEN CLAIM
THAT WE AND YOUR CITY WOULD END
UP PAYING FOR THE CLEANUP
ANYWAY BY WAY OF TAX BOTH OUR
TAXES OUR WHOLE CITY WOULD
VALUE THE HEALTH OF ITS
RESIDENTS, THE TAXPAYERS AND
WOULD CLEAN IT UP NOW.
LASTLY, I'M SORRY THAT THE
CLIMATE IS NO LONGER THIS THE
FIGHT FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR A MARKET RATE HOUSING
QUALITY A CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
HOLD HE SAID QUOTE NOW
ADMITTEDLY THE USE OF THE WORD
REQUIRED FOR MARKET RATE 30
SECOND AFFORDABLE MAY YET BE
UNINVITED TO A THANKSGIVING
DINNER TABLE.
YES INDEED.
WHAT HAPPENS?
I THOUGHT IT WAS ALL ABOUT
POLICY BUT NOW MARKET RATE I
REALLY AM LOOKING FORWARD TO A
LONG DISCUSSION OUT OF BUDGET
AND I HOPE THAT THE BUDGET WILL
BE CHANGED FOR THE BETTER FOR
AT YOUR NEXT MEETING TIME.
THANK YOU.
THANK
SHELL HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
HI.
>> SO YEAH I GOT I GOT THREE
COMMENTS.
>> ONE IS THE I LIKE THE IDEA
OF THE THE DOWNTOWN SAFETY
PATROLS INVOLVING AN EMPTY AND
A AND SOMEONE FROM SUPPORTIVE
CONNECTIONS.
THAT'S A GREAT IDEA.
I DO NOT LIKE THE IDEA
OF POLICE BEING INVOLVED IN
THIS ALSO BECAUSE IF IF WE WANT
SAFETY PATROLS TO BE GOING
AROUND HELPING PEOPLE, IT'S
GOING TO BE HARD TO FIND PEOPLE
.
IT'S GOING TO BE HARD TO MAKE
PEOPLE FEEL SAFE ENOUGH TO BE
HONEST ABOUT THE KIND OF HELP
THAT THEY NEED IF THERE'S A
POLICE OFFICER AROUND AND EVEN
IF THE POLICE, YOU KNOW, SAY OH
WE'RE NOT HERE TO ARREST PEOPLE
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT WHEN
THEY'RE PART OF A PROJECT WHEN
THEY'RE PART OF THESE PATROLS,
UM, THAT MESSAGE WILL NOT BE
HEARD BY THE PEOPLE ON THE
STREET WHO THEY'RE TALKING TO
AND THEY WILL AND SO IT'LL
IT'LL DEFINITELY INHIBIT PEOPLE
FINDING THE RIGHT KIND OF HELP
AND THERE'S POINT NUMBER TWO I
SAW THAT THIS INCREASES THE
POLICE BUDGET BY ONE POINT
SEVENTY FIVE FTE AND I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT'S BECAUSE OF THE
DOWNTOWN SAFETY PATROLS OR NOT.
BUT EITHER WAY I WOULD LIKE FOR
US NOT TO BE INCREASING THE
POLICE BUDGET.
I THINK THAT WE'LL SEE WHEN WE
START IMPLEMENTING THE WHEN WE
START IMPLEMENTING THE UNARMED
RESPONSE PROGRAM THAT THE NEED
FOR POLICE OFFICERS WILL WILL
DROP BY QUITE A BIT BECAUSE THE
UNARMED RESPONSE WILL BE DOING
A LOT OF THE WORK THAT POLICE
USED TO DO AND SO I'D RATHER
SEE SOME OF THE MONEY INSTEAD
OF BEING SPENT AT LEAST SPENT
ON THAT.
AND FINALLY WE HAVE ONE MILLION
DOLLARS ON ALLOCATED BUDGET
MONEY FROM MARIJUANA TAXES AND
I WOULD LIKE TO ADVOCATE FOR
THAT TO GO TOWARDS REPARATIONS
.
THE CITY HAS IT THROUGHOUT ITS
HISTORY UP TO THE PRESENT HAD
POLICIES THAT HAVE PREVENTED
BLACK FAMILIES FROM FROM
BUILDING WEALTH, FROM BUILDING
GENERATIONAL WEALTH AND
MEANWHILE WHAT WHITE FAMILIES
HAVE HAD OPPORTUNITIES TO BUILD
WEALTH THAT BLACK FAMILIES ARE
NOT AND THAT IS NOT JUST SOME
INEVITABLE FORCES OF HISTORY
THAT CAUSED THAT TO HAPPEN.
DECISIONS THAT WERE MADE BY THE
CITY COUNCIL.
AND SO WE SHOULD TAKE THAT THAT
MILLION AND PUT IT TOWARDS
REPARATIONS LIKE I DO IN
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
.
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN TWO TO EIGHT, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT OR GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS GREGORY CARTER
IN BOULDER, COLORADO.
WELL I'M CALLING IN ONCE AGAIN
TO ADVOCATE FOR THE 250000
DOLLAR BUDGET PLACEHOLDER OR
THE EVALUATION STUDY
OF OBVIOUSLY UTILITY AS MANY
OF THE OTHER CALLERS SAID, THIS
IS SIMPLY THE NEXT THAT
APPROXIMATELY THE CITY HAS
ALREADY BEGUN IF THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY IS POSITIVE
AND IT INDICATES THAT IT WOULD
BE A DIRECTION THAT WILL BE
FINANCIALLY BENEFICIAL FOR THE
CITY TO PURSUE, THEN THE NEXT
STEP IN PROVIDENCE ARE
VALUATION ON WHAT THE COST
OF THESE ASSETS WOULD WHICH
WOULD ALLOW THEM TO THEN MAKE
AN OFFER THAT WOULD HELP IN ANY
FUTURE LEGAL FIGHTS OVER
VALUATION AND IT'S JUST PRUDENT
ABOUT PURSUING THIS CROSSOVER
IF WE DID NOT PUT THE
PLACEHOLDER IN THE BUDGET AND
THEN THE RESULTS WERE POSITIVE
,IT WOULD SIMPLY MEAN THAT WE
NEED TO TAKE THE MONEY FROM
SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE BUDGET
RATHER THAT AND THAT WAS SIMPLY
JUST BE MESSY.
IT WOULD BE IT COULD BE IT
WOULD BE POOR GOVERNANCE.
WE KNOW THIS IS NOT TOO
CONTROVERSIAL OF A POSITION.
ASK FOR IT SEEMS LIKE SIMPLY
THE PRUDENT THING TO DO
CONSIDERING THAT WE HAVE THIS
STUDY COMING OUT NEXT MONTH AND
WE DON'T KNOW THE RESULTS YET
BUT WE KNOW THAT THE NEXT STEPS
ARE POSITIVE WOULD BE TO SPEND
THIS MONEY.
YOU LOOKED ACROSS THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN ACROSS THE COUNTRY
YOU SEE THAT AT LEAST 40 PEOPLE
RATED BETTER RELIABILITY AND
THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO CHOOSE
WHERE THE POWER COMES FROM.
BUT THE CITY OF AN AVERAGE KIND
OF GOAL IS UNREALISTIC TO
EXPECT THAT WE ARE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO REACH THEM WITH THEIR
PRIMARY POWER
.
UNIVERSALIZATION SIMPLY SEEMS
LIKE THE ONLY REALISTIC OPTION
IS TO PURSUE THE CITY FINAL
GOAL.
WELL, HAVE ANY BENEFIT
OF INCREASING ITS RELIABILITY
AND OVER TIME LOWERING?
>> SO I THINK THE GREAT ANSWER
IS NO.
ALL THE WORK THAT YOU'VE BEEN
PUTTING INTO THIS BUDGET.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
PHONE NUMBER CALLER THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN SIX FOUR FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
CALLER SIX FOUR FOUR GO AHEAD.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CAFOD WHERE I 176
177 CHARGES IN THE PRINTED
WORD.
WELL INTO THIS YEAR'S CITY
BUDGET ISSUES CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT, THE CAIB AND ONE
OF THE ITEMS INCLUDED IN THE
IS THE EXTENSION OF A RUNWAY AT
THE INNER CITY AIRPORT.
OUR EIGHTEEN YEAR OLD PLAN BOTH
TO GO CARBON NEUTRALITY BY THE
YEAR 2030 AND A STRATEGY THAT
FOCUSES ON REDUCING THE MILES
WE TRAVEL IN OUR VEHICLE
REGARDLESS OF TYPE BY 50
PERCENT HAVING THOSE TWO GOALS
IT IS IRONIC THAT AN EXTENSION
THE AIRPORT RUNWAY COULD BE
CONSIDERED FOR INCLUSION IN THE
IPD.
YES, THE ANN ARBOR AIRPORT HAS
A LONG AND INTERESTING HISTORY.
YES, IT PROVIDES MANY BENEFITS
IN ANN ARBOR AND THE
SURROUNDING AREAS BUT THAT DOES
NOT NECESSARILY LEAD TO THE
CONCLUSION THAT EXTENDING THE
RUNWAY BY 720 FEET WILL BE
BETTER FOR THE COMMUNITY THAN
THE CURRENT CONFIGURATION
OF THE AIRPORT.
>> THIS IS BECAUSE A LONGER
RUNWAY IS SURE TO ENABLE USE BY
LARGER JETS AND MORE JET
TRAFFIC FROM HERE'S WHAT THE
MAYOR SAID IN HIS LETTER
OF WELCOME ON PAGE FIVE OF THE
H0 PLAN.
WELL, EVERY PERSON EVERY
HOMEOWNER RENTERS, STUDENT
VISITOR COMMUNITY NO BUSINESS
OWNER WORKER YOUTH AND ELECTED
LEADER HAS A SIGNIFICANT ROLE
TO PLAY IN ACHIEVING COMMUNITY
WIDE CARBON NEUTRALITY AND
QUOTE WHEN A MAYOR SAYS THAT
EVERY PERSON I BELIEVE THAT
EVERY PERSON MUST INCLUDE THOSE
WHO TRAVEL TO AND FROM ANN
ARBOR BY PRIVATE OR CORPORATE
JET IF THAT IS NOT OK, IF ONLY
PERSON FOR THE LESSER FINANCIAL
MEANS THEN JET TRAVELERS ARE
ASKED TO MAKE SACRIFICES THEN
THAT CERTAINLY FLIES IN THE
FACE OF THE ADMIRABLE GOALS
OF THE AGE OF ZERO PLANNING
SOMETHING THAT CLAIMS THAT THE
RUNWAY SHOULD BE EXTENDED FOR
REASONS OF SAFETY BUT NO CLEAR
DANGER FROM THE CURRENT
CONFIGURATION THE RUNWAY HAS
BEEN DEMONSTRATED.
OTHERS SAY THIS IS BETTER IF
THE TRUE PURPOSE OF THE
PROPOSED RUNWAY EXTENSION IS TO
ALLOW MORE AND LARGER JET
ENGINES TO ENTER THE AIRPORT AT
A TIME WHEN WE ARE FULLY AWARE
OF HOW HIGHLY POLLUTING THESE
JETS ARE 30 EXTENSION OF SHORT
OF THE RUNWAY WOULD BRING DROP
UNION JOBS.
SO THE OTHER ITEMS ON THE IP
THE LIST OF PROPOSED CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS AFTER ALL I HOPE
CITY COUNCIL WILL CONSIDER
REMOVING THE PROPOSED ENDEAVOR
IF AIRPORT RUNWAY EXTENSION
FROM THE CITY SO THAT PROJECT
IS MUCH BROADER COMMUNITY
BENEFIT CAN BE MOVE FORWARD
INSTEAD BECAUSE AN EXTENDED
AIRPORT RUNWAY WILL BENEFIT
ONLY A VERY WEALTHY THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
COLOR WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN NINE THREE
SIX.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT STAR SIX
ON ME YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
>> HELLO I WITH JUST LIKE TWO
UP THAT YOU DON'T INCREASE THE
BUDGET THIS YEAR AND WHEN WE
ARE CONSIDERING WE ARE GOING TO
SPEND AROUND THIRTY MILLION
DOLLARS ON POLICE BUT ALSO WE
ARE POLICE FIRE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN POLICE WE HAVE AN
ADDITIONAL SURTAX ON
MILLIONAIRES, MILLIONAIRES AND
ALSO DOWNTOWN SAFETY PATROLS
WOULD BE MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE
.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING AT FIVE FIVE SIX,
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT REAL
QUICK AGAIN WORD I TRIED TO GO
THROUGH THE BUDGET TODAY 420
PAGES.
I SPENT A COUPLE HOURS
REVIEWING IT.
GOT TO PAGE ONE FOR THREE.
I HAVE A LOT OF QUESTIONS THUS
FAR AFTER ELIMINATING YOUR WORK
QUESTIONS AND RELATED KIND
OF IT LOOKS LIKE YOU HAVEN'T
ASKED A SINGLE QUESTION WHICH
VERY SURPRISED.
LET ME ASK A COUPLE.
>> THE FIRST ONE MIGHT BE
SOMEWHERE IN HERE BUT I SEE THE
ANSWER ARE GOING TO BE USING
THE PRIVATE MILITARY TO PAY FOR
THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THESE
NEXT EXPLANATION OF THE
STATEMENT ON PAGE 29, DEREK
SAYS WE HAVE SIX HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY FIVE FDM 2013 TEN YEARS
AGO TO PROPOSE EIGHT HUNDRED
TWENTY NINE AND TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR HUNDRED AND FORTY FOUR
MORE PEOPLE.
THAT'S AN INCREASE OF TWENTY
ONE PERCENT THEN IT'S IN
GENERAL THE CITY GOVERNMENT HAS
BECOME A MORE EFFICIENT
ORGANIZATION REALLY BETTER
MAYBE DOING MORE MAYBE BUT MORE
EFFICIENT OUT GET A SERIOUS
STRETCH THIS BUDGET AT TWENTY
SEVEN THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS
GONE FROM THREE IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE IN FIVE TO EIGHT
NEXT YEAR.
WHAT ARE THOSE TWO ADDITIONAL
PEOPLE ALREADY DOING?
WHAT ARE THE THREE GOING TO DO
SUSTAINABILITY.
IS IT ENOUGH TO YOU PAGE 143
THE BUDGET USES DIFFERENT NO
OTHER PLACES.
HOW ABOUT COMMISSION FROM
THIRTY AND TWENTY TWENTY ONE TO
FORTY THREE NOW FORTY SEVEN
NEXT YEAR FIFTY TWO AND TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE.
SHOULD YOU BE ASKING WHAT ARE
YOU GOING TO BE DOING WITH THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR SAID WE NEED
TO PAY MORE TO BE COMPETITIVE
STILL THREE PERCENT TO ALL AND
EMPLOYEE I THINK AT THAT POINT
BUT WITH ALL THESE NEW HIRES
YOU'RE TALKING THREE MILLION
BEFORE THE SALARY FROM STEPHEN
HOW DO WE GET A FEW DOLLARS THE
JUST A FEW EXTRA QUESTIONS FROM
ANOTHER FROM THE REPORT HUMAN
RESOURCES GOES FROM TWO POINT
THREE MILLION LAST YEAR TO TWO
POINT SEVEN NEXT YEAR.
FINANCE FORMULA IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE POINT NEXT YEAR JUST
CAUGHT ONE POINT TWO MILLION
TWENTY TWENTY TWO TO ONE POINT
FIVE NEXT YEAR IF THEY SAY A
FEW MILLION HERE AND THERE A
REAL MONEY I THINK WE REALLY
NEED TO LOOK AT SOME OF THE
EFFICIENCIES THAT COULD BE MADE
HERE AND I FIND IT REALLY
QUICKLY THAT IN A SERIOUS WAY.
THANK YOU
CALLER AT THE PHONE
OF ENDING IN ZERO EIGHT THREE.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
?
CALLER 083 CRESTAR SIX ON YOUR
PHONE GO AHEAD
.
AM I HERE ON THE YES YOU ARE
ONE OF THE THREE WHY AM I HERE
TO BE ROOTED OUT HERE.
THAT'S A PUBLIC COMMENT BUT
I'LL KEEP MY COMMENT TO THIS.
I ALSO KNOW THAT THERE WAS NO
PARTICULAR LINE IN REGARDS TO
HER REPRESENTATIVE TO THIS
OTHER CITY AND PARTICULARLY THE
CENTER OF THE CITY AS A
COMMUNITY COLLEGE IT IS OK AND
I WAS VERY IMPRESSED WITH THE
NOTION THAT THE PUBLIC ARE
PEOPLE WHO HAD ANTICIPATED A
POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN THESE
IDEAS THAT BE A PROJECT AND I
HOPE THAT COULD BE A
PLACEHOLDER DEVELOPMENT CENTER
CITY YOUR PARTICULAR AREA.
SO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE THE MONEY
RAISED TO HER FACILITIES AND
THEIR DESIGN PLAN AND STUDIES
DONE TO HELP US FIGURE OUT
FLIERS HERE.
THESE ARE OUR NOT SO
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT OUTSOURCING,
OUTSOURCING CREATIVITY.
I THINK IT WOULD BE DESIRABLE
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO
ANTICIPATE YOUR OUTCOME
ANALYSIS OR FEASIBILITY AND
PLAN AND STUDY IS ACTUALLY
HAVING THAT PROGRAMMATIC
SUPPORT OR SOME SORT AGREED
CAMPAIGN THAT I WANT TO ASK FOR
THE PLACEHOLDER WOULD BE SOME
EDUCATION FOR THE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC
AS TO WHAT COMES PRIMARILY TO
THE SOURCE SELF MANAGED BY THE
USERS.
THIS IS AN IDEA THAT IS NOT NEW
AS ALL THIS HISTORY AND THE
NOBEL PRIZE IN ECONOMICS IS I
THINK I THOUGHT HE WAS GIVEN TO
THE RESEARCH THAT TOOK PLACE
ALL OVER THE WORLD AS TO HOW TO
USE COMMON SOURCES AND PUBLIC
AND PRIVATE AND WHAT PEOPLE
CARE OF THEIR MONEY AND LAND
AND TALENT AND SO ON ARE
MANAGED
BY THE USERS RATHER
THAN BY THE GOVERNMENT OR BY
SOME CORPORATION.
THE RESOURCES ARE BETTER
INTRODUCED.
SO THAT'S WHY IT'S IMPORTANT TO
SEE SOME EDUCATION FOR THE
COUNCIL BEFORE AND FOR THE
THIRTY SECONDS AS TO WHAT IS
THE CURRENT.
NO, I HOPE THAT YOU WILL SEE A
PLACEHOLDER FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
OF THE ITEMS AND ALSO TO
ACTUALLY PUT SOME STAFF TIME ON
CHILDREN EDUCATION ABOUT WHAT
ARE THESE IDEAS THAT ARE
DEVELOPING ALL OVER THE WORLD
AS A NEW STRAIN OF URBAN
PARTICIPATION MUCH MORE AND
MUTUAL INTEREST AND THE
BRINGING OF KNOWLEDGE
OF SCIENCE INTO PLANNING BE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU ADAM.
JUST HOW MUCH DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI THIS IS ADAM DISCOVERED IN
THE FOURTH QUARTER AND I WOULD
JUST LIKE TO SUPPORT A COUPLE
OF OTHER COMMENTERS IDEAS NO
ONE TO REMOVE POLICE FROM THE
DOWNTOWN SAFETY PATROLS.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE A GREAT
PLACE FOR OUR UNARMED
RESPONDERS ONCE THAT PROGRAM IS
IN PLACE.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR POLICE OFFICERS
TO BE JOINING THOSE PATROLS AND
LIKEWISE I DON'T REALLY SEE A
NEED FOR HIRING MORE POLICE
OFFICERS.
I ALSO DO LIKE THE IDEA
OF SPENDING THE AN ALLOCATED
MILLION DOLLARS ON OPERATIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CALLER OVER THE PHONE
NUMBER SIX SIX ONE.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
ON NO
RUNNING IN SIX SIX ONE PRESS
STORY GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
>> YES YES HELLO MY WE THREE
MONTGOMERY.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO THANK THE
COUNCIL BY THE PHASE ONE
FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A FULL
PUBLIC ELECTRIC UTILITY.
THIS UTILITY WOULD WELCOME
COMPLETELY REPLACE ME AND
PROVIDE 100 PERCENT RELIABLE
RENEWABLE FOR ALL RESIDENTS ARE
AND STUDY TO DECIDE WHETHER TO
MOVE FORWARD.
THE REPORT WILL BE READY IN
JUNE AND I THINK WE OUGHT TO DO
IT AND SHOW THAT A PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY IS FEASIBLE.
I URGE CITY COUNCIL TO CREATE A
TWO FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLAR
BUDGETARY PLACEHOLDER OR
EVALUATION FOR THE PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY BECAUSE IT
PUTS A PRICE ON THESE ELECTRIC
LINES IN AN HOUR IN PREPARATION
TO BUYING YOUR STUDY IS THE
NEXT STEP IN THE PROCESS ITSELF
ACCORDING TO FEASIBILITY STUDY
THEY ARE ONE VISIBILITY STUDY
NOT DONE UNTIL NEXT MONTH BUT
YOU'RE PASSING YOUR BUDGET THIS
MONTH IT'LL BE EASIER JUST TO
CREATE 250000 A PLACEHOLDER AND
AVOID SCRAMBLING FOR MONTHS
LATER.
OK, THIRD, I'LL HAVE TO SAY
THAT THE POWER RIGHT AREA ON
THE LEFT SIDE FOR THREE DAYS IN
THE FEBRUARY I SEE MY HOUSE ARE
DOWN FORTY SIX DEGREES FOR
POWER WAS RESTORED.
IT WAS AMAZING.
THERE WAS AN AMAZINGLY
STRESSFUL AND AVOIDED FEELING
GOOD ABOUT EIGHTY THOUSAND.
YOU NEVER LOST POWER IN THAT
STORM IN THE WINTER IN THE
BITTER COLD AND THEN YOU
PROVIDED THE MORE IN THE DANGER
DAMAGE THE COST AND CAUSED BY
UNRELIABLE ELECTRIC SERVICE
DISQUALIFY THAT CORPORATION
FROM PROVIDING POWER TO AINATA
WE REQUIRE DEPENDABLE AND
DEPENDABLE ELECTRIC SERVICE AND
LUCKILY THE STATE CONSTITUTION
GIVES US THAT OPTION AND TO
HAVE A PUBLIC ELECTROCUTED
COMPLETELY REPLACE THE CITY.
I WILL LOOK FORWARD TO THAT BE
OUT OF HERE PLEASE CREATE
250000 DOLLAR BUDGET
PLACEHOLDER SO WE CAN TAKE THE
NEXT STEP IN CREATING A PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF APRIL SEVENTEEN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE WE HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THIS MASSIVE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND SECURITY
COUNCIL MEMBER DICH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES A ONE ALL
FAVOR POST MINUTES ARE
APPROVED.
WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION 263 OF CHAPTER TWENTY
NINE WATER TO TITLE TWO OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVE BY COUNCIL BRITISH
SECONDARY CUSTOMER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B ON
COUNCIL DISH DO WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION HERE OR NO
UNNECESSARY WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION FOR THE BOND BUT I
WILL TAKE THIS MOMENT
NONETHELESS.
PRODUCTION STAFF IF THEY COULD
RESPOND TO AN EARLIER COMMENT
FROM THE PUBLIC HEARING AND I
WOULD LIKE TO ASK STAFF TO
EXPLAIN WHAT EXPENSES ARE
MOTIVATING THIS YEAR, WHAT ARE
RATE INCREASES?
ARE THEIR PROJECTS OR
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
PENDING MISS MISPRISION SHOULD
BE AVAILABLE TO RESPOND TO YOUR
QUESTION
WHEN YOU ADDRESS THAT
QUESTION, IF YOU PLEASE ASK SO
YOU CAN HEAR ME OK WE CAN THANK
YOU STIGWOOD.
HELLO COUNCIL MAYOR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR, PUBLIC SERVICE
INTERIOR MINISTER.
THE QUESTION WAS ABOUT WHAT
PROJECTS MAY BE LEADING TO THE
CORPORATIVE IN THE RATES THAT
ARE PROJECTED FOR THE COMING
YEAR?
THAT QUESTION YES.
SO OUR RATES ARE DOWN AROUND A
VARIETY OF THINGS.
OUR OPERATION AND ALL EXPENSES
ARE ONE COMPONENT BUT IT'S ALSO
WHAT ARE CAPITAL NEEDS ARE SO
SERVICE ON BOARD.
THERE ARE PROJECTS INCORPORATED
IN TERMS OF OUR PLANNING FOR
THE COMING FISCAL YEAR THAT ARE
CAPTURED IN THE RACE.
SO IT HAS TO DO WITH OUR
OPERATIONAL AND CAPITAL NEEDS.
>> YOU KNOW AS WELL I'M GOING
TO BE DOING THE INTRODUCTION
FOR THE DON'T ONE BUT I'LL TALK
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT SOME OF THE
PROJECTS HERE ASSOCIATED WITH
THAT BOND ISSUE.
BUT WE HAVE A PRETTY AGGRESSIVE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
I THINK THAT THERE'S ALMOST 10
MILLION DOLLARS IN THIS COMING
FISCAL YEAR.
I MIGHT NEED TO GET MR. DER,
MR. KRISCHAN TO CONFIRM THAT
NO, I DON'T HAVE THAT IN FRONT
OF ME.
BUT ALL OF THOSE PIECES
TOGETHER ARE WHAT ARE BUILT
INTO PERFECTIONS.
YOU HAVE FIVE SECONDS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION,
COUNCILOR BRITISH WAS A
CHRISTIAN.
OH NO
SORRY COUNCILOR.
YEAH, MR STEIGLITZ I WAS STRUCK
IN YOUR BUDGET PRESENTATION
WHEN YOU TALKED ABOUT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THE WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WAS
PROJECTED TO HAVE A ONE HUNDRED
YEAR LIFESPAN.
A LOT OF THAT BEING PUT IN
DURING THE TENS AND 20S AND NOW
WE'RE COMING UP TO THE 2010 AND
2012 IS COULD YOU SPEAK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT?
AND I KNOW THAT THERE WAS ALSO
A BIG SPIKE IN THE WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE CREATED IN THE
FIFTIES AND SIXTIES TOO WHICH
MIGHT HAVE THERE MIGHT BE SOME
STUFF WITH SHORTER LIFESPANS
THERE.
SO COULD YOU KIND OF CLARIFY
THAT A LITTLE BETTER?
>> I JUST DID YOUR WHAT I
DISCUSSED I HAD A SLIDE
PRESENTATION WRITTEN ON THE
CIVIL INFRASTRUCTURE AND IF YOU
LOOK AT WHEN THE INFRASTRUCTURE
IS PUT IN AND WHAT YOU EXPECTED
YOU'LL SEE OVER THE NEXT DECADE
OR SO THE EXPECTED LIFE
REACHING THE TERMINAL ITS
TERMINAL POINT PERSON WILL WORK
THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE SO
POSITION TO BEGIN WORKING
CONTINUE REPLACING SOME
OF THAT.
YOU'LL SEE A LOT OF THAT IN THE
CAPITAL PLAN FOR THE NEXT FOUR
YEARS OR SO THERE ARE ABOUT 20
WOTRING PROJECTS DISTRIBUTION
PROJECTS INCORPORATED IN THE
BUDGET WHICH ARE PART OF WHAT
THE FOUNDATION WILL BE USED FOR
AGAIN.
WE'LL BE TALKING ABOUT ONE.
SO WE ANTICIPATE TYPICALLY WHEN
WE PUT PIPE IN THE GROUND THAT
IT'S GOING TO LAST ABOUT 100
YEARS SO THAT MAYBE WE SHOULD
BE REPLACING ABOUT ONE PERCENT
A YEAR TO STAY ON TOP OF OUR
BUILDING OR REINVESTING NEEDS.
SO THAT IS WHAT'S DRIVING A LOT
OF THE CURRENT AND FUTURE RATE
PROJECTIONS IN ADDITION TO THE
IMPROVEMENTS WE NEED TO MAKE AT
ONE POINT THAT WAS BUILT IN THE
1930S AND IS ALSO REACHING THE
END PORTION OF ITS THANK YOU
CALCIUM EDITION.
>> SO IS IT FAIR TO SAY THAT
OUR WATER COSTS THE COST OF OF
OF PROVIDING WATER ACTUALLY
DOES GO UP BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN
SUBSIDIZED BY INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WAS BUILT IN 100 YEARS AGO
AND NOW WE'RE NEEDING TO
REPLACE THAT AND WE'RE NEEDING
TO CATCH UP WITH SOME DEFERRED
REPLACEMENT THERE THAT PREVIOUS
PEOPLE HAVEN'T ALWAYS BEEN AS
CONSCIENTIOUS ABOUT KEEPING UP
WITH THAT REPLACEMENT RATE AS
WE ARE BEING TODAY.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
I THINK THAT'S A FAIR STATEMENT
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> I JUST I WILL SAY THAT, YOU
KNOW, ONE OF OUR HIGHEST
OBLIGATIONS IS TO PROVIDE CLEAN
SAFE, DELICIOUS DRINKING WATER
TO TO ALL MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND WE CANNOT DO THAT
WITHOUT WITHOUT ADEQUATE UP TO
DATE AND CONSTANTLY MAINTAINED
WATER DISTRIBUTION,
INFRASTRUCTURE, WATER
TREATMENT, INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE WITH
TODAY'S WATER RATES IS WE ARE
CONTINUING TO TO KEEP OUR
PROMISE TO PROVIDE CLEAN WATER
TO RESIDENTS BOTH TODAY AND IN
THE FUTURE.
WE ARE PROPERLY CAPITALIZING
PROGRAM ARE OUR SYSTEM ENSURING
THAT IT WILL BE HERE IMPROVING
FOR DECADES TO COME?
FURTHER DISCUSSION WILL FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED TO AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION TWO SIX NINE
TO TWENTY NINE STORMWATER RATES
OF TITLE TWO OF THE CODE THE
STEPHEN HARPER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER OR SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE TWO COUNCIL NO
BREAKS.
I'D LIKE TO ASK A SIMILAR
QUESTION ON THE STORMWATER
RATES.
THE STAFF MIGHT BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT
OF INFORMATION ABOUT HOW THESE
FUNDS WILL BE USED.
MR. SQUIGGLES, GO AHEAD AND
APOLOGIZE FOR LETTING MY VIDEO
RESUME BUT I CAN HEAR YOU ALL
SIMILARLY WITH OUR STORMWATER
RATES WE ARE WE HAVE THE
CAPITAL NEEDS ARE IN A LOT
OF CASES DRIVING WHAT THE RATE
INCREASES ARE.
AGAIN, SIGNIFICANT NUMBER
OF PROJECTS INCLUDED IN OUR
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
WELL, OBVIOUSLY ALSO ASSOCIATED
WITH THE STORM WATER SYSTEM
JUST MANAGING ALL OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO THOSE ARE THINGS LIKE
MAINTAINING STORMWATER
INFRASTRUCTURE, CLEANING FARM
SURVEYING AND TRYING TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE PIPES ARE CLEAR
AND PAST.
THE POINT IS THAT THEY NEED TO.
SO WHAT I WOULD SAY THE CAPITAL
NEEDS ARE SIGNIFICANT ELEMENT
IN TERMS OF WHAT'S DRIVING RATE
PROJECTIONS.
>> I DON'T HAVE SPECIFIC
PROJECTS AT MY FINGERTIPS.
I CAN PROVIDE COMFORT .
THANK YOU.
NO DISH.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO REMIND
THANK YOU.
PEOPLE WHO ARE HAVING TROUBLE
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO REMIND
PAYING THEIR UTILITY BILLS TO
PEOPLE WHO ARE HAVING TROUBLE
MAKE USE OF THE COUNTY BARRIER
PAYING THEIR UTILITY BILLS TO
BUSTERS PROGRAM IF THEY MEET
MAKE USE OF THE COUNTY BARRIER
THE ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
BUSTERS PROGRAM IF THEY MEET
AND YOU CAN FIND THAT JUST BY
THE ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
PUTTING IN VARIABLE USE
AND YOU CAN FIND THAT JUST BY
WASHTENAW DOUG AND I WANTED TO
PUTTING IN VARIABLE USE
NOTE ALSO THAT WASHTENAW COUNTY
WASHTENAW DOUG AND I WANTED TO
MAKES IT VERY EASY FOR PEOPLE
NOTE ALSO THAT WASHTENAW COUNTY
WHO ARE NOT HAVING TROUBLE
MAKES IT VERY EASY FOR PEOPLE
PAYING THEIR UTILITIES TO
WHO ARE NOT HAVING TROUBLE
CONTRIBUTE TO THE BARRIER
PAYING THEIR UTILITIES TO
BUSTERS FUND ON THAT SAME PAGE
CONTRIBUTE TO THE BARRIER
FURTHER DISCUSSION WHILE I
BUSTERS FUND ON THAT SAME PAGE
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED SEE
FURTHER DISCUSSION WHILE I
ONE INSURANCE AUTHORIZE THE
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED SEE
ISSUANCE AND SALE OF WATER
ONE INSURANCE AUTHORIZE THE
SUPPLY SYSTEM REVENUE BOND
ISSUANCE AND SALE OF WATER
SERIES TWO ZERO TWO THREE THE
SUPPLY SYSTEM REVENUE BOND
AMOUNT OF FORTY MILLION DOLLARS
SERIES TWO ZERO TWO THREE THE
MOVED I CAN'T REMEMBER A DISH
AMOUNT OF FORTY MILLION DOLLARS
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
MOVED I CAN'T REMEMBER A DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE I
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
BELIEVE WE HAVE A STAFF
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE I
INTRODUCTION WE MRS. STEIGLITZ
BELIEVE WE HAVE A STAFF
WILL HANDLE THIS FOR US.
INTRODUCTION WE MRS. STEIGLITZ
>> MR. DOUGLAS YOU HAVE THE
WILL HANDLE THIS FOR US.
CON.
>> MR. DOUGLAS YOU HAVE THE
>> THANK YOU.
CON.
I WILL KEEP THIS UP AND MR. MR.
>> THANK YOU.
EAGER HERE TO SUPPORT YOUR CASE
I WILL KEEP THIS UP AND MR. MR.
QUESTION THAT I MAY NOT ANSWER
EAGER HERE TO SUPPORT YOUR CASE
THIS VON IS FOCUSED ON PROJECTS
QUESTION THAT I MAY NOT ANSWER
THAT GO THROUGH FISCAL YEAR
THIS VON IS FOCUSED ON PROJECTS
TWENTY SIX THERE'S ABOUT TWENTY
THAT GO THROUGH FISCAL YEAR
EIGHT OF THEM.
TWENTY SIX THERE'S ABOUT TWENTY
THEY ARE ALL ON DISTRIBUTION
EIGHT OF THEM.
SYSTEM FOCUSED SO MOSTLY WHAT
THEY ARE ALL ON DISTRIBUTION
ARE THEY PROJECT IT ALSO THE
SYSTEM FOCUSED SO MOSTLY WHAT
PLACES IN THE DISTRIBUTION
ARE THEY PROJECT IT ALSO THE
SYSTEM IN THE TYPICAL AND BEST
PLACES IN THE DISTRIBUTION
PRACTICE FOR US TO USE BONDS TO
SYSTEM IN THE TYPICAL AND BEST
PAY FOR FUTURE CAPITAL PROJECTS
PRACTICE FOR US TO USE BONDS TO
NEEDS LIKE THIS AND THE REASON
PAY FOR FUTURE CAPITAL PROJECTS
IS THAT THAT'S BEST PRACTICE
NEEDS LIKE THIS AND THE REASON
BECAUSE THE BENEFITS OF THESE
IS THAT THAT'S BEST PRACTICE
INVESTMENTS ARE REALIZED BY
BECAUSE THE BENEFITS OF THESE
FUTURE WATER CUSTOMERS AND
INVESTMENTS ARE REALIZED BY
THROUGH THE BONDING PROCESS
FUTURE WATER CUSTOMERS AND
THAT WE PAY THE BONDS BACK
THROUGH THE BONDING PROCESS
THROUGH OUR WATER RATES.
THAT WE PAY THE BONDS BACK
UTAKO CUSTOMERS ARE PAYING FOR
THROUGH OUR WATER RATES.
THAT ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT.
UTAKO CUSTOMERS ARE PAYING FOR
SO THAT'S TYPICAL IN BEST
THAT ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT.
PRACTICES AND THE REASON WHY WE
SO THAT'S TYPICAL IN BEST
USE ISSUING DEBT TO COVER BUT
PRACTICES AND THE REASON WHY WE
WE ALSO HAVE OTHER TOOLS IN
USE ISSUING DEBT TO COVER BUT
TOOLBOX BESIDES JUST ISSUING
WE ALSO HAVE OTHER TOOLS IN
OUR OWN BY ISSUING BONDS BY THE
TOOLBOX BESIDES JUST ISSUING
CITY.
OUR OWN BY ISSUING BONDS BY THE
BUT WE LOOK AT GRANT PROGRAMS
CITY.
HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL RECENTLY.
BUT WE LOOK AT GRANT PROGRAMS
IN FACT WE JUST RECENTLY WAS
HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL RECENTLY.
AWARDED ONE FROM THE STATE
IN FACT WE JUST RECENTLY WAS
OF MICHIGAN TO HELP DO SOME
AWARDED ONE FROM THE STATE
WORK ON THE WATER TREATMENT
OF MICHIGAN TO HELP DO SOME
PLANT ASSOCIATED WITH OUR
WORK ON THE WATER TREATMENT
FILTERS.
PLANT ASSOCIATED WITH OUR
WE ALSO USE A REVOLVING FUND
FILTERS.
PROGRAM.
WE ALSO USE A REVOLVING FUND
WE'VE BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN
PROGRAM.
ACHIEVING OR GETTING FUNDS FROM
WE'VE BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN
RECENTLY FROM THE STATE
ACHIEVING OR GETTING FUNDS FROM
OF MICHIGAN AND WE'LL CONTINUE
RECENTLY FROM THE STATE
TO PURSUE THOSE TYPES
OF MICHIGAN AND WE'LL CONTINUE
OF OPTIONS AVAILABLE THAT WILL
TO PURSUE THOSE TYPES
BE AVAILABLE TO US WHEN WE SEE
OF OPTIONS AVAILABLE THAT WILL
PROJECTS THAT FIT AND WE THINK
BE AVAILABLE TO US WHEN WE SEE
WE'LL SCORE WELL THE PROJECTS
PROJECTS THAT FIT AND WE THINK
THAT WE'VE IDENTIFIED FOR THIS
WE'LL SCORE WELL THE PROJECTS
WATER RATHER NEWBON AGAIN WHICH
THAT WE'VE IDENTIFIED FOR THIS
ARE TYPICALLY WATER PROJECTS
WATER RATHER NEWBON AGAIN WHICH
TYPICALLY DO NOT SCORE WELL
ARE TYPICALLY WATER PROJECTS
THROUGH THE STATE'S RANKING
TYPICALLY DO NOT SCORE WELL
SYSTEM.
THROUGH THE STATE'S RANKING
SO WE TEND NOT TO SUBMIT ETECSA
SYSTEM.
PROJECTS FUNDING BUT WHEN WE'RE
SO WE TEND NOT TO SUBMIT ETECSA
DOING PROJECTS THAT HAVE A
PROJECTS FUNDING BUT WHEN WE'RE
LARGER BENEFIT FOR THE WHOLE
DOING PROJECTS THAT HAVE A
WATER SYSTEM THOSE WILL SCORE
LARGER BENEFIT FOR THE WHOLE
BETTER WITH STATES RANKING
WATER SYSTEM THOSE WILL SCORE
SYSTEM AND SO WE WILL CONTINUE
BETTER WITH STATES RANKING
TO THROUGH IN ORDER TO GET
SYSTEM AND SO WE WILL CONTINUE
PREFERRED THE REFERRAL RATES
TO THROUGH IN ORDER TO GET
ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE STATE'S
PREFERRED THE REFERRAL RATES
PROGRAM.
ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE STATE'S
THE BONDS ARE HELD.
PROGRAM.
ONE OTHER QUESTION WAS RAISED
THE BONDS ARE HELD.
BY ONE OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
ONE OTHER QUESTION WAS RAISED
WAS OUR BONDS PAID BACK AND
BY ONE OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
THEY WERE PAID BACK THROUGH
WAS OUR BONDS PAID BACK AND
MUTUAL CONVENTION THAT PROVIDED
THEY WERE PAID BACK THROUGH
THE OTHER PORTION OF UTILIZING
MUTUAL CONVENTION THAT PROVIDED
BONDS THAT HELPS US MEET ALSO
THE OTHER PORTION OF UTILIZING
OUR FINANCIAL METRICS UTILITY.
BONDS THAT HELPS US MEET ALSO
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT THINGS
OUR FINANCIAL METRICS UTILITY.
LIKE COVERAGE RATIOS TO MAKE
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT THINGS
SURE WE CAN MEET THOSE IN ORDER
LIKE COVERAGE RATIOS TO MAKE
TO MAKE SURE WE CAN MAINTAIN
SURE WE CAN MEET THOSE IN ORDER
THE BOND RATING IF WE WANT TO.
TO MAKE SURE WE CAN MAINTAIN
WE CAN GET GOOD RATES WHEN WE
THE BOND RATING IF WE WANT TO.
GO TO MARKET SO WE FACTOR IN
WE CAN GET GOOD RATES WHEN WE
THESE FINANCIAL METRICS ALSO
GO TO MARKET SO WE FACTOR IN
INTO THE DECISION ON HOW MUCH
THESE FINANCIAL METRICS ALSO
TO BOND FOR AND AND WHEN TO
INTO THE DECISION ON HOW MUCH
ALSO GO OUT TO THE MARKET TO
TO BOND FOR AND AND WHEN TO
BORROW MONEY LIKE THIS.
ALSO GO OUT TO THE MARKET TO
THE LAST THING ALL THAT I CAN
BORROW MONEY LIKE THIS.
TAKE AND IT CAN ONLY BE IF
THE LAST THING ALL THAT I CAN
THERE'S ANY OTHER QUESTION IS
TAKE AND IT CAN ONLY BE IF
THAT WE DID ALSO JUST PUT OUT
THERE'S ANY OTHER QUESTION IS
IN OUR BEEN OUR MONTHLY
THAT WE DID ALSO JUST PUT OUT
NEWSLETTER WHICH IS THE
IN OUR BEEN OUR MONTHLY
UNDERWATER NEWSLETTER, A
NEWSLETTER WHICH IS THE
DESCRIPTION THAT YOU CAN SHARE
UNDERWATER NEWSLETTER, A
ABOUT THE BOND AND THE THE
DESCRIPTION THAT YOU CAN SHARE
ANTICIPATED USE AND HOW WE WILL
ABOUT THE BOND AND THE THE
FUND THAT AS REQUESTED.
ANTICIPATED USE AND HOW WE WILL
ONE OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS ALSO
FUND THAT AS REQUESTED.
SAID THAT CAN YOU SHARE
ONE OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS ALSO
CONSTITUENTS IF IF DESIRED OR
SAID THAT CAN YOU SHARE
NOT?
CONSTITUENTS IF IF DESIRED OR
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
NOT?
FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
.
WELL, I'M SORRY ROLL CALL VOTE
PLEASE.
STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON HERE CASPERSON YEAH,
THAT'S RIGHT CHIEF.
>> I'M SORRY.
YES, YES.
ONE DAY YES.
>> THAT'S MY SONG.
YES, THAT'S MY WATER.
YES THAT'S MY DENHA.
YES MARKAZI ADD ONE MORE TAYLOR
YES.
CUSTOMER YES THAT'S RIGHT.
YES SWARBRICK YES ELSEWHERE
CORNELL YES.
CUSTOMER DISH YES MOTION
CARRIES DO YOU SEE ONE
RESOLUTION UPDATING THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
POLICY AGENDA COMMITTEE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
ON
THEIR.
OH I'M SORRY CUSTOMER WATSON I
JUST WANTED TO SINCE I SIT ON
THE POLICY AGENDA COMMITTEE I
WANTED TO EXPLAIN A BIT THIS
BASICALLY LINES UP THE TIMING
OF THE POLICY AGENDA
COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS TO
LIGHT THE LEGISLATIVE CYCLE
WHICH IS EVERY TWO YEARS AS
OPPOSED TO EVERY ONE YEAR.
SO WE WANTED TO TIME IT WITH
THE NEW DELEGATIONS ARRIVING IN
WASHINGTON AND LANSING AND
YEAH.
>> SO THAT'S THAT'S REALLY THE
MAJOR PORTION OF IT.
AND THEN THE OTHER PORTION IS
THAT WE WILL BE SOLICITING
INPUT FROM COMMITTEES AND
COMMISSIONS FROM TIME TO TIME
RATHER THAN SIMILARLY RATHER
ANNUALLY JUST TO LINE UP WITH
TO BETTER LINE UP WITH NEW
LEGISLATIVE BODIES.
SO FOR THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IS APPROVED TO
RESOLUTION TO ENTER AT LEAST
WITH LEE MERABET TO THE FORM
OF THE MEIXELL PROPERTY MOVE BY
COUNTERMELODY A SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TWO COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA.
>> THANKS MAJALAH.
JUST VERY BRIEFLY THIS IS
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD IN THE
RESOLUTION BUT THIS IS LEASING
OUR BY PROTECT SELL PROPERTY
BETTER BETTER KNOWN AS MASEL
FARMS MASEL PROPERTY FIFTY FOUR
ACRES THE PURCHASE OF WHICH WAS
APPROVED BY COUNCIL IN MAY
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO AND THIS
THIS LEASE IS JUST GOING TO
ENSURE THAT THE STEWARDSHIP
OF THE LAND AS WE TRANSITION
OWNERSHIP TO A NEW FARMER.
SO I REALLY JUST WANT TO THANK
OUR GREENBELT STAFF FOR ALL
OF THEIR CONTINUED WORK HERE
AND TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
PROPERTY IS IS TAKEN CARE
OF AND READY FOR A TRANSITION.
>> SO THANKS FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
WELL, FAVOR POES IT IS APPROVED
TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
UNSATISFYING YET VOTE
REQUIREMENT DID ONE RESOLUTION
TO DISSOLVE THE BROWNFIELD'S
PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE MOVE BY
COUNCILOR A BY COUNCIL MEMBER
KORNFELD DISCUSSION PLEASE DID
ONE COUNT WITH BRITISH?
YEAH, I WANT TO CONTINUE THE
EXCELLENT EXPLANATION THAT WAS
BEGUN BY COUNCIL MEMBER EARLIER
AND JUST REMIND EVERYONE THAT
THE BROWNFIELD'S PLAN REVIEW
COMMITTEE IS MERELY A SUBSET
OF COUNCIL NO MEMBERS OTHER
THAN COUNCIL MEMBERS ON IT AND
INITIALLY IT FILL THE GAP
COUNCIL ESTABLISHED THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN WHEN AGREEMENTS
WERE NEGOTIATED BY THE BONFIELD
PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE WHEN
AGREEMENTS WERE NEGOTIATED
PROJECT BY PROJECT WHICH IS TO
SAY THAT STANDARD POLICY
GUIDELINES HAD NOT YET BEEN
SPECIFIED SO THAT THE COMMITTEE
SERVED AS A FUNCTION OF MAKING
THOSE GUIDELINES UP AS IT WENT
ALONG THEY NEGOTIATED BONFIELD
AGREEMENTS AND THEN SENT THEM
ALONG TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL SINCE TWENTY NINETEEN
WHEN COUNCIL ADOPTED A POLICY
THAT PRESCRIBED STANDARDS
GUIDING THESE BROWNFIELD TAX
INCENTIVE AGREEMENTS, THERE WAS
NO LONGER A GAP FOR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE TO FILL.
WE HAD ACTUALLY TOLD OURSELVES
HOW TO DO THAT WORK AND SO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WAS
ESSENTIALLY PART OF THE COUNCIL
BEING INSTRUCTED BY THE WHOLE
COUNCIL ON WHAT TO DO TO GIVE
TO THE WHOLE COUNCIL TO
APPROVE.
YOU SEE MY POINT THERE'S A
LITTLE REDUNDANCY IF NOT A
LITTLE BIT OF SCHIZOPHRENIA
THERE.
SO NO, I SHOULDN'T BE LIED
ABOUT THAT.
SO ANYWAY, THE POLICY SPECIFIES
THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND NON
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES THAT
ARE AND ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FOR
REIMBURSEMENT CODIFIED RULES
SUCH AS WE ENACTED IN TWENTY
NINETEEN PLAY AN IMPORTANT PART
IN OVERSIGHT BECAUSE THEY
PROVIDE CONSISTENT COMMON
STANDARDS THAT ANY REVIEWING
BODY AND THE PUBLIC MUST USE IN
EVALUATING BERNFIELD AGREEMENTS
.
>> DISSOLVING THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE MAKES NO REDUCTION OR
LIMITATION OF COUNCIL
OVERSIGHT.
THERE IS NO PUNTING OR SHIRKING
OF RESPONSIBILITY.
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE HAS NEVER
BEEN THE COMMITTEE OF FINAL
REVIEW.
IT IS IT IS NOW AND WILL REMAIN
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY
COUNCIL TO REVIEW BERNFIELD
AGREEMENTS FOR PROJECTS WITHIN
THE CITY OF EMBER AND DENY OR
APPROVE THEM.
COUNCIL AS A BODY WILL NOW ACT
AS A COUNCIL MEMBER I EXPLAINED
EARLIER WITH THE BENEFIT OF A
PRESENTATION FROM THE
DEVELOPER.
ANY PLAN APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL WILL PROCEED TO THE
COUNTY FOR FINAL APPROVAL.
NOTHING IS BEING CEDED TO THE
COUNTY THE COUNTY IS NOW AND
WILL REMAIN IN THE ROLE OR IT
IS NOW THE ROLE OF THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS TO GIVE FINAL
APPROVAL TO ANY BROWNFIELD PLAN
THAT COMES BEFORE IT.
AND WHAT'S MORE, THE BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS ALWAYS
CONVENES A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
EVERY BROWNFIELD PLAN AGREEMENT
IN THE COUNTY AND PROVIDES A
NOTICE TO EVERY TAXING
JURISDICTION.
SO WHETHER THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
IS DISSOLVED OR NOT, ALL
AFFECTED JURISDICTIONS WILL BE
NOTICED AND WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO EVALUATE AND
COMMENT ON EVERY COUNTY FIELD
AGREEMENT.
IF WE DISSOLVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE WE WILL ELIMINATE ONE
THING ONLY WHICH IS THE
INEFFICIENT USE OF A PRECIOUS
RESOURCE AND I AM TALKING ABOUT
THE TIME AND EFFORT OF OUR
PLANNING STAFF AND DEVELOPMENT
TEAM COUNCILOR OR PRIVY COUNCIL
OR QUINNELL MY MICROPHONE I'M
SO FIRED UP ABOUT THIS JUST TO
CLEAR UP SOME I THINK THIS
INFORMATION THAT'S BEEN SHARED
BY THE MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUNDS
BROWNFIELD PROGRAM USES TAX
INCREMENTAL FINANCING TO
REIMBURSE BROWNFIELD RELATED
COSTS THAT ARE INCURRED WHEN
DEVELOPING CONTAMINATED
FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE, BLIGHTED
,HISTORIC OR OTHER.
HERE'S THE KEY WORD ELIGIBLE
PROPERTIES BY INCREASING THE
TAXABLE VALUE THE PROPERTIES
BROWNFIELD PROGRAM GENERATES
INCREASED TAX REVENUE AND HAS A
POSITIVE SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON
THE TAXABLE VALUES
OF SURROUNDING PROPERTIES.
I THINK A COUPLE OF REALLY
IMPORTANT THINGS TO NOTE IS
THAT THE INCENTIVE AMOUNT IS
NOT GUARANTEED.
IT IS ONLY REALIZED IF THE
INVESTMENT ACHIEVES THE
ANTICIPATED INCREASE IN
PROPERTY VALUE SO THE CAUSE AND
EFFECT NEED TO MATCH IN ORDER
FOR THAT INCENTIVE TO BE
AWARDED THE DEVELOPER MUST PAY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
SITE AND THEN PROPERTY TAXES
MUST BE PAID EACH YEAR.
THIS IS NOT A HANDOUT ONCE A
BROWNFIELD PLAN REIMBURSEMENT
IS COMPLETE THE INCREASED
PROPERTY TAXES WOULD NOT EXIST
WITHOUT THE REDEVELOPMENT
TAKING PLACE BEGIN GOING
DIRECTLY TO ALL OF THE TAXING
JURISDICTIONS CITY, COUNTY AND
STATE TYPE PROGRAMS ARE REALLY
COMMON IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
.
WE HAVE OTHER EXAMPLES OF TAX
INCREMENTAL FINANCING BEING
USED HERE IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND IN EVERY SINGLE CASE
WHERE DOLLARS ARE APPLIED
THEY'RE VERY CLEAR PARAMETERS
AROUND WHAT A QUALIFYING
PROJECT IS, CLEAR METHODS TO
EVALUATE THE SUCCESS OF A
PROJECT IN ORDER FOR THOSE
DOLLARS TO BE AWARDED.
>> THIS IS IMPORTANT.
THERE'S NO AMBIGUITY WHEN IT
COMES TO AWARDING TIPPLERS
REGARDLESS OF THE PROGRAM FROM
WHICH THOSE DOLLARS ARE GRANTED
.
THERE'S ALSO NO AMBIGUITY
AROUND THE BROWNFIELD TIF BEING
AN IMPORTANT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S NOT UNIQUE
TO ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN OR THE
COUNTRY.
IT'S REALLY COMMON.
WHAT IS IN COMMON IS TO SUGGEST
THAT THERE'S SOMETHING
IRRESPONSIBLE, UNTOWARD,
SHORTSIGHTED, UNINFORMED ABOUT
THIS MOVE BY CITY COUNCIL.
QUITE CANDIDLY IT FEELS LIKE
CONSPIRACY THEORY FODDER AROUND
A PROGRAM THAT IS LITERALLY
DESIGNED TO PROVIDE SIGNIFICANT
ECONOMIC BENEFIT TO THE CITY.
ANY BENEFICIAL PROJECT WITH THE
CITY WOULD TAKE AND STILL
REQUIRE CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL
THAT CAN'T BE STATED MORE TO
SUGGEST DISSOLVING THIS
COMMITTEE REMOVES OVERSIGHT
FROM THE PROCESS IS DISHONEST
AT WORST AND AT BEST IT SHOWS A
COMPLETE AND FUNDAMENTAL LACK
OF KNOWLEDGE AROUND THE PROCESS
ITSELF.
>> THANK YOU FOR A DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER IA I ALREADY
ADDRESSED THIS EARLIER SO I
JUST BRIEFLY WANT TO NOTE THAT
AS A MEMBER OF THE POTENTIALLY
DISSOLVING COMMITTEE I HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SIT IN ON ONE
DISCUSSION AND THAT WAS
REGARDING THE VILLAGE'S PROJECT
AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE A NOTE
OF THE FACT THAT THE
SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION THAT
HAPPENED DURING THAT SMALL
MEETING THAT WAS REALLY NOT
ATTENDED BY THE PUBLIC I DON'T
THINK ANYONE YOU WERE THERE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
YOU WERE THAT YOU WERE THE ONLY
PERSON YOU KNOW, WE WE RECEIVED
THE THE PRESENTATION FROM THE
DEVELOPER AND THEN WE HAD A
SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION AND THEN
WHEN IT CAME TO COUNCIL IT WAS
IT WAS NOT SO SUBSTANTIVE
BECAUSE THAT HAD ALREADY TAKEN
PLACE AND THE RECOMMENDATION
CAME HERE.
I WANT THAT SUBSTANTIVE
SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION TO
HAPPEN HERE AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE AND THAT IS WHERE IT WILL
HAPPEN WHEN WE YOU KNOW, IF
THIS PASSES AND WE DO DISSOLVE
THAT AND BRING THAT DISCUSSION
TO THE COUNCIL AS A WHOLE.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
, A
CONSTITUENT ASKED ME ABOUT THIS
DURING MY MOST RECENT
COFFEE HOUR OR SO I YOU KNOW, I
POSED SOME QUESTIONS TO STAFF
AND I'M GOING TO SAY I'M
SUPPORTING THIS SINCE THE
COMMITTEE IS ONLY COMPOSED
OF FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS, THERE
ARE NO MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC ON
THIS COMMITTEE, NO ADDITIONAL
EXPERT EXPERTIZE IS ADDED AT
THAT STAGE AND THERE'S ALSO NO
WAY FOR STAFF TO KNOW IF THE
OPINION OF THOSE FOUR COUNCIL
MEMBERS REPRESENTS A CONSENSUS
OPINION OF COUNCIL OR EVEN THE
MAJORITY OF OPINION OF COUNCIL
.
SO ELIMINATING THIS COMMISSION
SAVES STAFF TIME AND IT LETS
PEOPLE BE PRESENTED TO THE
ENTIRE COUNCIL AT ONCE RATHER
THAN FOR MEMBERS AND BECAUSE
THE TWENTY NINETEEN POLICY
CREATES A FRAMEWORK COUNCIL
COULD STILL DISAGREE.
BUT YOU KNOW THE DEBATE CAN
HAPPEN AT THE COUNCIL TABLE
RATHER THAN IN THIS COMMISSION.
SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
I THINK MOST OF THE POINTS THAT
I WANTED TO MAKE HAVE BEEN MADE
IN TERMS OF THIS IS NOT A YOU
KNOW, THERE'S BEEN A DESIRE TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE MORE
MORE SCRUTINY PARTICULARLY
OF CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF OF THE
BROWNFIELD PLANS.
THIS IS NOT GOING TO REDUCE THE
LEVEL OF SCRUTINY.
I THINK THE HOPE IS FOR THIS
BODY IS THAT WE'LL PROVIDE
BETTER INFORMATION TO THE
ENTIRE BODY SO THAT WE CAN HAVE
THAT SCRUTINY HAPPENING IN A
PUBLIC SPACE.
SO I THINK THAT YOU WILL SEE
BENEFITS THERE.
THIS ISN'T ABOUT THE BURDEN TO
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THERE ISN'T A BURDEN TO COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
THIS MEETING THIS THIS GROUP
MEETS VERY LATE.
THIS IS ABOUT SORT OF OTHER
PARTS OF THE PROCESS THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO PROVIDE GREATER
EFFICIENCY.
BUT THE PIECE THAT I THINK THAT
MAYBE HASN'T BEEN MENTIONED YET
TONIGHT IS THAT THIS WASN'T THE
DETERMINATION OF THE NEW
COUNCIL AT THE FIRST COMMITTEE
THIS WAS CONSIDERED OVER TO
COUNCIL BODIES.
SO STAFF CAME TO THE BROWNFIELD
SUBCOMMITTEE WHEN I SERVED ON
IT LAST YEAR AND SAID, YOU
KNOW, HEY, WE'RE THINKING ABOUT
THIS.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
AND THAT WAS A DIFFERENT BODY
AND THERE WAS AT THAT TIME
AGREEMENT
THAT THAT MADE SENSE.
BUT STAFF DIDN'T ACT THEN THEY
PROVIDED MORE INFORMATION.
IT CAME TO ANOTHER COUNCIL BODY
AND ACROSS TO COUNCIL BODIES.
NOW THIS HAS BEEN CONSIDERED
OBVIOUSLY THE FINAL VOTE IS
WITH US.
BUT I REMEMBER CATHY GRISWOLD
SITTING ON THAT ON THAT
COMMITTEE, YOU KNOW, AND I
DON'T RECALL OBJECTIONS BEING
RAISED EITHER.
SO ANYWAY, I AM COMFORTABLE
WITH MOVING FORWARD WITH US
TONIGHT AND I HOPE THIS WILL BE
AN IMPROVEMENT TO THE PROCESS
FOR DISCUSSION FAVOR OPPOSED IS
APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR, I WOULD LIKE TO
REQUEST A CLOSED SESSION UNDER
MCO FIFTY POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
SIX SECTION EIGHT E REGARDING
THE LITIGATION CLAD CONVENIENCE
INC VERSUS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN COURT
OF APPEALS CASE NUMBER THREE
FIVE NINE ZERO ONE THREE AND
ALSO UNDER SECTION EIGHT H
REGARDING A PRIVILEGE AND
CONFIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM THAT
WAS PROVIDED TO COUNSEL TODAY
MAY 1ST, 2003.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MADAM.
A MOTION TO GO INTO CLOSED
SESSION FOR THE PURPOSE AND
STATED MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AKMAN TAKEN BY COUNCIL MEMBER
QUINNELL DISCUSSION GROUP
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
HOUSEWORKER YES COSMAS YES SIR.
WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES MARKAZI
EDWIN APSA TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER IGHER YES.
CUSTOMER YES CUSTOMER BRIGS YES
.
CARNEL YES THAT'S WHERE IT IS.
YES OH SHIKARI WE'RE IN CLOSED
SESSION.
>> LET'S MEET UPSTAIRS AT NINE
THIRTY
WE'RE BACK AFTER A
CLOSED SESSION.
HAVE EMOTIONAL NEEDS TO GO BACK
INTO OPEN SESSION MOVED BY
COUNCILOR IRA, SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISCUSSION ON
FABER POST WE ARE BACK IN OPEN
SESSION OF THE MOTION PLEASE TO
OPEN UP THE GENDER MOVE BY
COUNCIL OVER DECISION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR POSED TO PROVE THEIR
MOTION PLEASE TO AMEND THE
AGENDA TO ADD RESOLUTION TO
DIRECT THE CITY ATTORNEY TO
PROVIDE THE PUBLIC LEGAL
OPINION REGARDING THE RECENT
NINTH COURT DECISION IN
CALIFORNIA RESTAURANT
ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION VS.
CITY OF BERKELEY DATED APRIL
17TH TWENTY TWENTY THREE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER JEWISH SECOND
BUT I CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT IN
DISCUSSION ON FABER POSED.
THE AGENDA IS AMENDED OR
CASSIMATIS WOULD YOU CARE TO
MOVE THAT MOTION?
I MOVE THE MOTION YOU DIRECT
THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PROVIDE A
PUBLIC LEGAL OPINION REGARDING
THE RECENT NINTH CIRCUIT COURT
DECISION IN CALIFORNIA
RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION VS. CITY
OF BERKELEY APRIL SEVENTEENTH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE SECONDED BY
COUNCILMAN WATSON DISCUSSION IN
FAVOR POSED THE THE RESOLUTION
IS APPROVED MOTION IS TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S REPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MOVE BY COUNSEL
BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCILOR
WATSON.
>> WE'RE JUST GOING TO ROLL
WITH THOSE TO DISCUSSION OF THE
CLERK'S REPORT ON FABER POSED
THE CLERK'S REPORT SUPPORTERS
APPROVED THIS COURT.
>> WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS OF OUR CITY
ATTORNEY TODAY.
NO THANK YOU.
WELL, THAT IS PERHAPS PERHAPS
SOMEDAY IN THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW WE
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL.
>> STAND BY.
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN DISCUSSION
OF PAPER POSED WHERE DURNED